 ARTICLE I. SHORT TITLE . PURPOSE Section 1.0 TABLE OF CONTENTS Generally Ill. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES Section Section Section Section 1.0 2.0 2.) 2:2 Zed 2.4 2.5 2.6 27 268 2.9 210 Zed 2.12 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 4.0 4.] 4.2 a) 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 Enforcing Officer Building Permit Required Plot Plan Site Plan Review Approval of Building Permit Application Denial of Building Permit Application Certificate of Occupancy Expiration of Building Permit Unlawful Structure Penalties Remedies Interpretation of District Boundaries Interpretation of Uses Unclassified Uses Zoning Board of Adjustment Appointment Procedure Powers and Duties Administrative Review _ Variances Justification Application for a Variance Public Notice Required Action on Appeals Appeals - How Taken Stay of Proceedings Appeals from Action of the Board  INNNAUNUHUN A AR wWwWWb 08 6© 6 ~] ~] 10 10 10 li 11  TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) ARTICLE Il. Section 5.0 Special Exception Uses 5.1 Special Exception Procedures 5.2 Public Notice Section 6.0 Amendments to Zoning Ordinance or to the Zoning Map 6.1 Authority to Amend 6.2 Authorized Petitioners 6.3 Petition for Amendment Section 7.0 City Council Action on Amendments 7.1 Notification and Adoption Requirements Section 8.0 Limitations on Rezoning Requests IV. DEFINITIONS Section 1.0 Purpose of Definition Section 2.0 Interpretation Section 3.0 Word Usage Section 4.0 Words and Phrases Defined Section 5.0 Uses Defined 5.1 Agricultural Uses 3.2 Residential Uses 5.3. Institutional Uses 5.4 Commercial Uses 3.5 Industrial Uses 5.6 | Temporary Uses Vs GENERAL REGULATIONS Section 1.0 General Use Regulations Section 2.0 Application to this Ordinance Section 3.0 Except as Otherwise Provided for in this Ordinance ii PAGE 1] 1] 12 13 13 13 13 14 14 15 16 16 16 16 16 26 26 27 28 30 35 37 38 38 38 38  ARTICLE Vv. Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) 4.0 5.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 11.0 12.0 13.0 14.0 15.0 16.0 17.0 Joint Occupancy Public Utilities Non-conforming Uses Non-conforming Lots of Record Continuance Restoration to Safe Condition Restoration After Damages Abandonment Annexed Property Change in Use Abandoned Right-of-way Abatement of Noise, Smoke, Gas, Vibration, Fumes, Dust, Fire and Explosion Hazard or Nuisance Reduction in Lot Area Prohibited Structures Conforming to District Regulations but not Other Regulations Buildings to be Moved VI. ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS Section AG Agricultural District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations m= Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) iii  39 39 40 40 40 40 40 40 4] 41 41 41 41 42 42 42 43 44 45 45 45  ARTICLE VI. Section Section Section Section Section TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) 2.0 2.1 Die a3 2.4 20 2.6 Led 3.0 3.1 32 3:3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 4.0 4.1] 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 5.0 5.1 Ded 5.3 5.4 a0 5.6 5.7 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 E-1 Single family Residential (Estate) Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Public Buildings Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) R-1 Single family Residential District Intent . Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Public Buildings Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) R-2 Single family Residential District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Public Buildings Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) R-2A Affordable Housing District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Public Buildings Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) R-3 Multifamily Residential District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses ~ Area and Dimensional Regulations Public Buildings iv   ARTICLE VI. Section Section Section Section TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) ‘Ted LZ 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 8.0 8.1 a2 8.3 8.4 8.5 8.6 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 9.4 9.5 9.6 9.7 9.8 9.9 9.10 9.11 9.12 9.13 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 10.4 10.5 10.6 RG Single family Residential (Garden Home District) Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) RT Townhouse Residential District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) PAGE 57 57 57 57 57 59 59 59 59 59 60 60 61 61 MP Manufactured/ Mobile Home Park District 62 Intent Uses Permitted Site Standards Installation Storage Facilities, Accessory Uses and Structures Off-street Parking and Streets Service Facilities Buffer Requirements Signs Landscaping Deck (Patio) Ownership Fences MS Manufactured (Mobile) Home Subdivision Intent Uses Permitted Area and Dimensional Regulations Manufactured (Mobile) Home Standards Procedure for Plat Approval Additional Regulations ~ 62 62 62 63 63 64 64 64 64 64 64 64 65 65 65 65 65 66 66 66  ARTICLE VI. Section Section Section Section Section Section TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) 11.0 11.1 11,2 11.3 11.4 11.5 11.6 12.0 12,] 12,2 12.3 12.4 12.5 12.6 13.0 1 13.2 13.3 13.4 13.5 13:6 14.0 14.1 14.2 14.3 14.4 14.5 14.6 15.0 15.1 15.2 15,3 15.4 13.5 15.6 16.0 16.1 16.2 O-1 Office Building District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations B-1 Neighborhood Business District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) B-2 General Business District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) M-1 Light Industrial District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) M-2 Heavy Industrial District Intent Uses Permitted Special Exception Uses Area and Dimensional Regulations Buffer Requirements Additional Regulations (When Applicable) M-3-S Strip Mining District Intent Uses Permitted vi 80 81 81 81  ARTICLE VI. Section Section TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) 16.0 16.3 16.4 17.0 17.1 17.2 17.3 17.4 17:5 M-3-S Strip Mining District Area and Dimensional Regulations Additional Requirements MR Municipal Reserve District Intent Zoning of Annexed Area Rezoning from the MR District Permitted Uses and Development Standards Action on Annexation Ordinances V0. SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS Section Section “ Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section 1.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 11.0 12.0 Area Modification for Lots of Record General Yard Requirements Front Yard Modifications Rear Yard Modifications Height Modifications Fences and Walls Porches, Terraces, Balconies, Cornices and Eaves Accessory Buildings and Structures Satellite Dish Antennas Temporary Structures and Building Material Storage Garage or Yard Sales Private Swimming Pools Farms Regulations Pertaining to Manufactured Homes Vii PAGE 81 81 82 82 82 82 82 83 83 84 84 84 84 85 85. 85 86 87 88 88 88 89 89 91  ARTICLE Section TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) 13.0 13,4 13.2 13,3 Buffers Definition General Requirements for Buffers/Screening Modification or Waiver VOI. SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section Section 1. 1.1 i 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 11.0 12.0 13.0 Generally Special Exception Procedures Public Notice Required Hobby Farms Shopping Centers Gasoline Service Stations Restaurants (Fast Food) Hospitals Nursing Care Facilities Cemeteries Home Occupations Mini-warehouses Private Tennis Courts Industrial Parks Transmission Towers (Commercial) IX. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS Section 1.0 Purpose of Off-street Parking and Loading Requirements mt Vili PAGE 92 92 92 D3 94 94 94 95 95 96 96 98 99 $9 100 100 101 102 103 104 106 106  TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED) ion 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 ULATIONS on 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 on 2.0 on 3.0 on 4.0 on 5.0 on 6.0 on 7.0 on 8.0 on 9.0 on 10.0 Purpose of Off-street Parking and Loading Requirements Off-street Parking and Loading Terms Defined Required Off-street Parking Spaces Off-street Parking Design Requirements Location of Required Parking Parking Prohibitions Access Controls Required Off-street Loading Spaces Off-street Loading Design Standards Change in Parking and Loading Requirements Purpose and Intent Definitions Applicable to this Ordinance General Regulations Applying to all Signs Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions Signs Permitted in Residential Districts Signs Permitted in the B-1 Neighborhood Business District Signs Permitted in the B-2 General Business District Signs Permitted in the O-1 Office Building District Signs Permitted in the M-1 Light Industrial and the M-2 Heavy Industrial District Signs Permitted in the AG Agriculture District Billboard Regulations Portable Sign Regulations me Construction and Maintenance of Signs PAGE 106 106 107 111 112 113 113 114 115 115 116 116 116 120 121 123 124 127 130 134 136 136 137 138 9) (nspections on Public PAGE 138 139 139 139 139 140 140 140 140 140 142 142 142 142 142 143  ZONING ORDINANCE, FULTONDALE, ALABAMA ORDINANCE NUMBER 433 AN ORDINANCE, IN PURSUANCE OF THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY CODE OF ALABAMA, 1975, VOLUME 10, TITLE 11, CHAPTER 52, AS AMENDED AND SUPPLANTED BY ALL APPLICABLE LAWS TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF FULTONDALE, ALABAMA: TO REGULATE WITHIN SUCH DISTRICTS THE HEIGHT, NUMBER OF STORIES, AND SIZE OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES, THE PERCENTAGE OF LOT THAT MAY BE OCCUPIED, THE SIZE OF YARDS AND OTHER OPEN SPACES, THE DENSITY OF POPULATION AND THE USE OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND LAND: TO REPEAL ALL EXISTING ZONING ORDINANCES AND PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF. THE GENERAL PUBLIC WELFARE REQUIRING IT, be it ordained by the City Council of Fultondale, Alabama, as follows: ARTICLE I SHORT TITLE This Ordinance shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of Fultondale, Alabama and the map herein referred to, identified by the title Zoning Map of Fultondale, Alabama, shall be further identified by the signature of the Mayor of Fultondale and attested to by the City Clerk. The Zoning Map of Fultondale is hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance. Such map is filed with the City Clerk of Fultondale at the time of the introduction of the Ordinance and will remain on file in the office of said clerk. Upon the adoption of this Ordinance, said map shall show by endorsement thereon the date of such adoption. ARTICLE II PURPOSE Section 1.0 Generally The zoning regulations and districts as herein established have been in accordance with a comprehensive plan and are designed: to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to regulate signs; to avoid undue concentrations of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewers, schools, parks, and other public improvements. The regulations have also been made with reasonable consideration, among other things, to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses; and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the City. ARTICLE I ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES Section 1.0 Enforcing Officer The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the Building Inspector of the City. He or she may be provided with the assistance of such other person or persons as the City Council may direct. The Building Inspector, or the duly authorized representative, shall in relation to this Ordinance: 1. Review all building permit applications with regard to conformance with all applicable provisions of this Ordinance and perform required inspections to insure such conformance. 2. Issue all building permits and maintain records thereof. 3. Issue all certificates of occupancy and maintain records thereof. 4, Issue and renew, where applicable, all temporary use permits and maintain records thereof. 3. Maintain current zoning maps and records of amendments thereto. 6. Have the right to enter upon any premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inspections of land, structures and buildings necessary to carry out the enforcement of this Ordinance. If the Building Inspector shall find that any of the provisions of this Ordinance are being violated, he or she shall proceed to notify, in writing, the person or persons responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation(s) and ordering the appropriate action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of additions, alterations,or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this Ordinance to insure compliance with, or to prevent violation of its provisions. ° Section 2.0 Building Permit Required It shall be unlawful to commence earthwork or the construction of any building or other structure, including accessory structures, or signs, or to store building materials or erect temporary field offices, or to commence the moving, alteration, or repair of any structure, including accessory structures, until the Building Inspector of the City has issued for such work a building permit including a statement that the plans, specifications, and intended use of such building or structure conforms with the provisions of this Ordinance in all respects. Application for a building permit shall be made to the Building Inspector on forms provided for that purpose. 2.1 Plot Plan A. It shall be unlawful for the Building Inspector to approve any plans or issue building permits for any excavation or construction until he or she has inspected such plans in detail and found them in conformity with this Ordinance. To this end, the Building Inspector shall require that every application for a building permit be accompanied by a plot plan drawn to scale, dimensioned, and showing the following in sufficient detail to enable the Building Inspector to ascertain whether or not the proposed development is in conformance with the provisions of this Ordinance. I, The actual shape, proportion and dimensions of the lot to be built upon. The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures to be erected, altered or moved and of any buildings or other structures already on the lot, both above and below existing grade. The existing and intended use of all buildings or other structures. The setback and side lines of buildings on adjoining lots and such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for determining conformance with the provision of this Ordinance. Every applicant for the use of land under and by virtue of the provisions of this Ordinance, shall include therewith a plan showing the location of necessary fire hydrants with adequate water flow. In addition thereto, the applicant shall submit to the City a written agreement between the applicant and the appropriate water authority specifying that the applicant shall assume the responsibility of purchasing and having installed such fire hydrants as required by the Fultondale Fire Department. The applicant shall also agree to pay the annual rental therefore, and such other charges that may be levied by the water authority for a period of two years from the date of their installation. Such agreement shall be submitted to the Building Inspector for his or her and the Fultondale Fire Department’s review and approval, and shall be in full force and effect at the time of the issuance of any building permit provided for hereunder. In addition, where applicable, the applicant shall provide the Building Inspector with copies of all deed restrictions and/or covenants which pertain to the subject property. 2.2 Site Plan Review A. New construction and substantial site development expansion of all planned residential developments: townhomes, garden homes, five (5) or more 3  2.3 2.4 multifamily dwellings, manufactured (mobile) home parks, manufactured (mobile) home subdivisions, institutional uses, commercial uses, and industrial uses shall require the submission and approval of a site plan prepared by a professional engineer who is licensed in the State of Alabama, with the minimum information described below. One reproducible set of plans and five (5) copies of each set shall be submitted for approval. 1. 5. Cover Sheet with: a. Name and location of the development; name, address, and signature of the owner; and name, address, and seal of the engineer. b. Vicinity map. c. Zoning and existing and proposed land use of the site. d. Date, scale, north arrow, and number of streets. Site layout, including: property dimensions, rights-of-way, easements, location and dimensions of all buildings (existing and proposed), setbacks, driveway access, off-street parking and loading, circulation, screening, buffer yards, and landscaping. Drainage, paving, grading and excavation, erosion and sedimentation, storm water detention, and floodplain management controls. Public and private utilities, including the sewage disposal system and water system. Fire lanes and hydrants. See Subsection 2.1. Approval Of Building Permit Application If, after review, it is found that the proposed construction, excavation, moving or other alteration (as set forth in the application) is in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, the Building Inspector of the City shall issue a building permit accordingly. Denial Of Building Permit Application The applicant, upon notification in writing by the Building Inspector of a building permit denial, may contact the Chairman of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and request a hearing before that body. 2S 2.6 2.7 Certificate of Occupancy No land or building or other structure or part thereof erected, moved or altered in its use shall be used or occupied until the Building Inspector of the City has issued a Certificate of Occupancy. Within three (3) days after the owner or his or her agent has notified the Building Inspector of the City that a building or premises thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector of the City to make a final inspection thereof, and issue a certificate of occupancy, if the building or premises or part thereof is found to conform with the provisions of this Ordinance, or if such certificate is refused, to state the refusal in writing with the cause. One (1) copy of the signed statement by the owner or his or her agent regarding the intended use of the premises, and a signed refusal (if any) shall be kept on file with the records of the Building Inspector. Appeals from the decision of the building inspector shall be heard by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Expiration of Building Permit Any permit under which no construction work has been done above the foundation wall or other foundation support within six (6) months from the date of issuance shall expire by limitation, but shall upon reapplication, be renewable, subject, however, to the provisions of all Ordinances in force at the time of said application for renewal. In no event shall any permit be renewed more than one time. Unlawful Structure A. Any uses of land or dwellings or construction or alteration of buildings or structures erected, altered, razed or converted in violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be a nuisance per se. The Building Inspector is hereby authorized to apply to a court of equity to abate the nuisance created by such unlawful use of a structure, land or building. Whenever the Building Inspector has declared a structure to be in violation of any applicable provisions of this Ordinance, the owner or occupant shall, within seventy-two (72) hours from receipt of notification _ from the Building Inspector to vacate such premises, accomplish such - vacation of said structure or premises which shall not again be used or occupied until such structure or premises has been adapted to conform to the provisions of this Ordinance. The service of notification shall be as follows: 1s By delivery to the owner personally, or by leaving the notice at the usual place of abode of the owner with a person of suitable age and discretion; or, og  2.8 2.9 2.10 2. By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed to the owner at his or her last known address with postage prepaid thereon; or, 3: By posting and keeping posted twenty-four (24) hours, a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the premises to be repaired. Penalties Any person, firm, corporation, or other organization which violates any provisions of this Ordinance shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. The conviction of a violation and imposition of any fine shall not constitute an exemption from compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance. Remedies In case any building or other structure is: erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this Ordinance, the Building Inspector of the City or any other appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner within five hundred feet (500°) who would be damaged or caused hardship by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may: 1. Institute an injunction or Mandamus or 2. other appropriate action or proceedings to stay or prevent occupancy of such building, structure or land. Interpretation of District Boundaries A. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall make an interpretation of the Zoning Map of Fultondale upon the request of any person. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any district shown on said maps, the following rules shall apply: I. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following street and alley lines or land lot lines, such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries. 2 In unsubdivided property or tracts where a district boundary divides a lot, the location of such boundaries, unless same are indicated by dimensions, shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on such maps. Be Where boundaries are approximately parallel to public right-of-way lines, such boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto. 2.11 2.12 Section 3.0 3.1 Interpretation Of Uses This ordinance recognizes the limitations of the district use listings given the infinite variations of essentially similar uses. Therefore, the Building Inspector is empowered to make interpretations so as to classify any questioned use within a listed use of most similar impact and characteristics. However, in no case shall the building inspector interpret a use as falling in one listed use when the use in question is more similar in impact and characteristics to another listed use. Any appeals related to the Building Inspector’s use interpretation may be filed with the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Unclassified Uses A. In the event the Building Inspector finds a new or unusual use that cannot appropriately fit a listed use in any district, the following procedures shall be followed: I, If compatible with the existing zoning district intent, the unclassified use shall be permitted by Special Exception upon approval and subject to the conditions set by the Fultondale Zoning Board of Adjustment. 2s If the unclassified use would not be compatible with the intent of the existing zoning district intent, the Building Inspector shall determine the most appropriate zoning district classification and require the property in question to be rezoned. In addition, the unclassified use shall be permitted in the new district by special exception if granted approval by Fultondale Zoning Board of Adjustment. See Article VII. a, Following final action on the unclassified use, as (1) and (2) above may require, the Fultondale Planning Commission may initiate an amendment to this Ordinance to list the newly permitted use in the most appropriate district(s). Zoning Board of Adjustment Appointment A board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby established. Such board shall be appointed as provided by Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11-52-80, or as such, may be amended; and, it shall have all powers granted therein. 3.2 Procedure The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this Ordinance. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairman, or in his or her absence, the acting Chairman. He or she may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be a public record and be immediately filed in the office of the Board. 3.3 Powers wad Duties The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties as granted in Section 3.2 above and as herein specified. 3.4 Administrative Review The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that an error exists in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Administrative Official in the enforcement of this Ordinance. Section 4.0 Variances To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship. 4.1 Justification A. Variances to the terms of this Chapter may be granted individual cases upon a finding by the Zoning Board of Adjustment that the variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship. Another essential factor is that the spirit of the Ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done. More specifically, the board shall determine all of the following criteria have been satisfied. 1. The Board should make proper adjustment to prevent unnecessary hardship, even to the extent of authorizing nonconforming uses. Where the Board authorizes a nonconforming use in a district to prevent unnecessary hardship, all relevant factors, when taken together, must indicate that the plight of the premises in question is unique in that they cannot be put reasonably to a conforming use because of the limitations imposed upon them by reason of their classification in a specific zone. 8  Variances should be permitted only under peculiar and exceptional circumstances. Hardship alone is NOT sufficient. Alabama statutes require unnecessary hardship. Mere financial loss of a kind, which might be common to all of the property owners in a district, is not an unnecessary hardship. When a hardship is self-inflicted or self-created, there is no basis for claim that a variance should be granted. Variances should be granted sparingly and the spirit of this Chapter, in harmony with the spirit of State Law, should be carefully preserved to the end, that the structure of this section would not disintegrate and fall apart by constant erosion at the hands of the Zoning Board of Adjustment. 4.2 Application For A Variance A. An application for a variance shall be filed with the Office of the Building Inspector at least twenty-one (21) days ahead of the scheduled hearing date before the Board of Adjustment. The application shall be filed by the property owner or the authorized agent of the owner on a form made available from the Building Inspector and shall include the following: L. Name, signature and address of the property owner and agent of the property owner, if any. Address of the property under consideration. Zoning and land use of the property under consideration. Justification for the variance in accordance with ALL of the criteria in Section 4.0, Subsection 4.1. A vicinity map showing the location of the property. A plot plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries and proposed development layout with the variance noted or highlighted. The names and addresses of adjacent property owners, as shown on the most recent records of the Jefferson County-Tax Assessor’s Office. 4.3 4.4 4.5 8. A fifty dollar ($50.00) administrative fee is required from the applicant or agent at the time the application for a variance is made, plus the cost incurred in notification and publication. Public Notice Required A. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled Zoning Board of Adjustment hearing, the Chairman of the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall give written notice of the variance request to all adjacent property owners. Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States Mail, first class, postage prepaid, addressed to such property owners at the addresses as submitted with the variance application. Any error in the address of such notices shall not invalidate the giving of notice, provided that no more than five percent (5%) of the total number of notices given contain any such error. Such notice shall state the following: 1. The name of the applicant. 2s The location of the property. B. The nature of the variance and applicable zoning provisions. 4, The time, date and location of the Zoning Board of Adjustment hearing at which said application is to be considered. Action On Appeals In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may, so long as such action is in conformity with the terms of this Ordinance, reverse, affirm (wholly or partly) or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as to what should be made; and, to that end, shall have powers of the administrative official from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Building Inspector, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this Ordinance, or to affect any variation in the application of this Ordinance. Appeals - How Taken Appeals to the Zoning Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved of by any officer, department, board or bureau of the City affected by any decision of the administrative official. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) days or such lesser period as may be provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the Building Inspector and with the Zoning Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. 10  4.6 4.7 Section 5.0 The administrative official shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting which the action appealed from was taken. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. Stay Of Proceedings An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Zoning Board of Adjustment (after the notice of appeal is filed by him or her) that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Building Inspector from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. Appeals From The Action Of The Board Any party aggrieved by any final judgement of the Zoning Board of Adjustment, may appeal therefrom to the Circuit Court or court of like jurisdiction as provided by Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11-52-81, or as the same may be amended within 15 days from the date of the Board hearing. Special Exception Uses In certain cases, land uses are identified for special zoning treatment. The nature of these uses is such that, when properly regulated, they are appropriate in several zone districts. In order to bring about the proper integration of uses into the City’s land use pattern, a special set of criteria or standards may be provided for each use listed in the Special Exception Use category. Review of these standards will tend to maintain compatibility with adjoining land uses and it is intended that the Fultondale Zoning Board of Adjustment will review all such proposals for these types of uses for compliance with the appropriate provisions before approval is granted and appropriate permits are issued. See Article VII. 5.1 Special Exception Procedures A. All uses listed as permitted by special exception shall require the submission of an application to the Zoning Board of Adjustment. An application for a special exception use shall be filed with the Building Inspector at least twenty-one (21) days ahead of the scheduled hearing date before the Zoning Board of Adjustment. An application shall be filed by the property owner or the authorized agent of the property owner on a 11  form made available by the Building Inspector. Such form shall be completed by the applicant or agent and include the following: hi Name, address and signature of the property owner and agent of the property owner, if any. Bn Address of the property under consideration. ae Existing zoning and land use of the property under consideration. 4. Proposed use by Special Exception. 5. A vicinity map showing the location of the property. 6. A plot plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries and the proposed development layout. 7 In addition, the applicant or agent must at the time of application, provide the Building Inspector with the names and addresses of adjacent property owners, as well as those property owners within five hundred feet (500°) of the subject property as shown on the most recent records of the Jefferson County Tax Assessor. 8. A seventy-five dollar ($75.00) administrative fee is required from the applicant or agent at the time the application is made, plus the cost incurred in the required notification and publication. 5.2 Public Notice A. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled Zoning Board of Adjustment public hearing, the Chairman of the Board of Adjustment shall give written notice of the proposal to all adjacent property owners, as well as those property owners within five hundred feet (500°) of the subject property. Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States Mail, first class, prepaid, addressed to those property owners at their addresses as submitted by the applicant at the time application was made. Any error in the addresses of such notices shall not invalidate the giving of notice provided not more than five percent (5 %) of the total number of notices contain any such error. Such notice shall contain the following: i. The name of the applicant. 2. The location of the property. 3s The proposed use by Special Exception. 4. The time, date and location of the Zoning Board of Adjustment Public Hearing. 12   Section 6.0 Amendments To The Zoning The Ordinance Or To The Zoning Map The regulations and the number, area and boundaries of districts established by this Ordinance may be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed by the City Council of the City of Fultondale; but, no amendment shall be considered, unless it is first submitted to the Fultondale Planning Commission for its review and recommendation. This body may, on its own initiative, propose changes, hold public hearings (public notice of which shall be given) for the consideration of any proposed amendment to the provisions of this Ordinance or to the Official Zoning Map of the City of Fultondale. 6.1 6.2 6.3 Authority To Amend Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning practices warrant such action, the City Council, by favorable vote of a majority of the members, may amend the regulations or zoning district boundaries herein established, in accordance with the Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11-52-78, or as same may be amended. Authorized Petitioners A petition for amendment of this Ordinance or the Zoning District Boundaries may be initiated by the City Council, the Planning Commission, or by the owner or agent of such property owner. Petition For Amendment A. A petition for amendment, when initiated by the property owner or by authorized agent of such owner, shall meet the application requirements of this section. B. The application for rezoning shall be made on a form available from the Building Inspector and shall be filed with the Building Inspector at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the Planning Commission hearing. The applicant shall provide the following information and materials. 1. Name, signature and address of the property owner and agent of the property owner, if any. 2s Address and legal description of the property under consideration, accompanied by a copy of the applicable tax maps clearly identifying the property subject to the rezoning request. 3. Present and proposed zoning and land use of the property under consideration. ~ 4. Reason for the rezoning request. 13  Section 7.0 7.1 5. Availability of required utilities and methods of storm water drainage and traffic control. 6. A vicinity map, drawn to scale, showing the size and location of the subject property. Ts A site plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries, public rights-of-way, and the proposed use and development layout. 8. The names and addresses of all adjacent property owners, as well as property owners within five hundred feet (500°) of the subject property, as shown on the most recent records of the Jefferson County Tax Assessor. 9. A one hundred and fifty dollar ( $150.00) administrative fee, plus the cost incurred in the notification by certified mail and publication. Note: When a petition for a zoning change is initiated by the City, rather than by a property owner or his authorized agent, those items and procedures outlined under 6.3 (B) must also be followed; although, item 9 shall not apply. City Council Action on Amendments Notification and Adoption Requirements At least fifteen (15) days in advance of the public hearing before the City Council, the Council shall publish the proposed zoning amendment in full for one (1) insertion in a newspaper of general circulation published within the City, together with a notice stating the time and place that the Ordinance is to be considered by the City Council, and stating further that at such time and place all persons who desire shall have an opportunity of being heard in opposition to or in favor of the amendment. The City Clerk shall give written notice by certified mail to all adjacent property owners as well as those property owners within five hundred feet (500°) of the subject property. Following the second public hearing, the City Council must publish a synopsis of the proposed amendment. This synopsis Should refer to the date and name of the newspaper in which the proposed amendment was first published. Both insertions must be published fifteen (15) days in advance of the passage of the Ordinance. If there is no newspaper of general circulation published within the City, the City Council must have the synopsis posted in four (4) conspicuous places within the municipality. Until these publication requirements have been met, no adoption of a zoning ordinance or amendment thereto will be valid. After such hearing, the governing body may adopt the Ordinance as reported by the Planning Commission or in such amended form as it deems best. However, 14  if the governing body makes substantial changes in the Ordinance as first advertised, the governing body should hold another public hearing after giving notice as described above. After the Ordinance is adopted by the governing body, it must again be published in the same manner as all municipal ordinances, subject to the provisions of the Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11-45-8. Section 8.0 Limitations On Rezoning Requests Should the City Council reject a rezoning amendment proposal by a property owner, the same kind of rezoning of the same tract of land will not be considered by the Planning Commission until a period of six (6) months has elapsed from the date of such action by the City Council. Furthermore, a withdrawal of the application for rezoning, after the hearing held by the Planning Commission but prior to the hearing held by the City Council, shall also require a six (6) month time period before another application may be submitted. However, the Planning Commission may adjust this time period if in the opinion of a majority of the Commission, an unusual situation or circumstance exists which would warrant another hearing. Each time the zoning amendment application is made, the required filing fee must be paid. Under no condition shall the fee be refunded for failure of such proposed amendment to be enacted into law. 15  ARTICLE IV DEFINITIONS Section 1.0 Purpose of Definition For the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance, certain terms used in this Ordinance shall have the meanings defined by this article. In the event a term is not listed in this article or is not defined elsewhere in this Ordinance, the conventional meaning of the term shall apply. Section 2.0 Interpretation The Building Inspector is authorized to make a final determination of the meaning of any term used in this Ordinance. In the case of any dispute, an appeal of the Building Inspector’s determination may be filed with the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Section 3.0 Word Usage In the interpretation of this Zoning Ordinance, the provisions and rules of this section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly requires otherwise. 1. Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other tenses and derivative forms. 2. Words in the singular number shall include the plural number, and words in the plural number shall include the singular number. a The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the feminine gender shall include the masculine. 4, The word shall is mandatory, and the word may is permissive. 5. The word person includes an individual, firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation. Section 4.0 Words and Phrases Defined The following general terms, when referred to in this Ordinance, shall have the meanings defined by this section. ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE Any motor vehicle which is partially dismantled, inoperative (See inoperative motor vehicle) wrecked, or junked vehicle which is left at any place on a street or highway within the City for a period of at least seven (7) consecutive days unless such vehicle, in the opinion of the Fultondale Police Department, endangers traffic flow and poses a  traffic safety problem. In this case, such vehicle shall be moved by the appropriate City department to a safe off-street location. ABUT, ADJACENT, ADJOIN OR CONTIGUOUS To physically touch or border upon or to share a common border with or be separated from the common border by an easement. ACCESS A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a property. ACCESSORY STRUCTURE A structure detached from a principal building on the same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building or use. ACCESSORY USE A use of land or of a building or portion thereof commonly associated with and integrally related to the principal use of the land or building on the same lot. ACRE A measure of land containing 43,560 square feet of area. ADDITION A structure added to the original structure at some time after completion of or after a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued for the original structure. ALLEY A service way providing a secondary means of access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation. ALTERATION Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing building, such as: bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior partitions, as well as any change in doors or windows, or any enlargement to a building or structure whether horizontally or vertically, or the moving of a building or structure from one location to another. APPLICANT A person submitting an application for development, a variance, a special exception use or rezoning. BASEMENT. A portion of a building located wholly or partially underground, having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground. BEDROOM A room marketed, designed, or otherwise intended to function primarily for sleeping. BERM A grass covered or landscaped mound of earth with a-slope of 1/3 or greater on both sides of the mound, used to screen activities of uses. BLOCK A tract or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets other than alleys. 17  BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT The Zoning Board of Adjustment of Fultondale, Alabama. BOARDER An individual other than a member of a family occupying the dwelling unit or part thereof, who, for compensation, is furnished sleeping accommodations and is furnished meals and other services as a part of consideration. BUFFER A strip of land that is retained in an undeveloped state for the purpose of providing a means of screening or separating incompatible land uses, promoting visual harmony, reducing noise, diverting emissions, reducing the effects of adjacent lighting and enhancing the natural environment. Buffers may consist of existing or planted trees, shrubs or vegetation, fences, walls or earth berms. See typical illustration below. BUFFER AREA—>  BUILDING A structure designed to be used as a place of occupancy, storage or shelter. BUILDING, FRONT The exterior wall of a building which faces the designated front lot line of the lot. BUILDING, PRINCIPAL The primary building on a lot or a building that houses a principal use. ° BUILDING HEIGHT The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof. BUILDING LINE OR BUILDING SETBACK LINE A line generally parallel to the street right-of-way line at a distance equal to the depth of the front yard required for the zoning district in which the lot is located. ~ BUILDING SPACING The minimum distance between buildings, measured from the outermost projection, excluding: bay windows, chimneys, flues, columns, ornamental features, cornices and eaves. 18  CARPORT A roofed structure providing Space for the parking or Storage of motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than three (3) sides, CITY Shall mean the City of Fultondale, Alabama. any district and under the Same restrictions as the land that it comprises. It is characterized by private Ownership and maintenance of designated exterior spaces by a condominium association of unit owners. COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCHL, Shall mean the City Council of the City of Fultondale, Alabama. CUL-DE-SAC A short street designed to have one end permanently closed; the Closed end is terminated by a vehicular turnaround. DENSITY The minimum required lot area per dwelling unit or the maximum number of dwelling units per acre of site area,  DEVELOPMENT The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels: the construction, reconstruction, conversion, alteration, relocation or enlargement of a structure; any mining, dredging, fitting, grading, paving, excavation, drilling or disturbance of land; and, any use or extension of the use of the land. DWELLING Any building or Portion thereof, which is designed and used for residential Occupancy. DWELLING ATTACHED Three (3) or more dwelling units adjoining one et A SPALL EDD another by a common wall, roof or floor, such as a townhouse or apartment. an one family and having no roof, wall or floor in common with any other dwelling unit, such as: a Single family residence, manufactured home, modular home, patio home or garden home. DWELLING MULTIFAMILY A_ building containing two (2) or more ~ dwelling units on a commonly shared lot, such as a duplex or apartment. DWELLING SINGLE-FAMILY A dwelling unit on an individual lot, such as: a single family residence, garden home, patio home, manufactured (mobile) home, townhouse or modular home. * EASEMENT Authorization by a property owner of the use of a designated part 19  FAMILY One person or a group of two or more persons living together and inter-related by bonds of consanguinity, marriage, or legal adoption, occupying the whole or part of a dwelling as a separate housekeeping unit with a common and single set of culinary facilities. The persons thus constituting a family may also include two (2) additional guests who occupy rooms for which compensation may not be paid. Any group of persons not so related, but inhabitating a single housekeeping unit, shall be considered to constitute one family for each five persons, including domestic employees, contained in each group. FENCE An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of materials, or vegetation which. is planted or retained as a means to enclose or screen areas of land. FLOOR AREA, GROSS The total area of a building measured by taking the outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or storage. IMPROVEMENT Any man-made immovable item which becomes a part of, placed upon or affixed to real estate. INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE A motor vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public streets for reasons including, but not limited to: being unlicensed, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under its own power. LIVABLE FLOOR AREA Any floor area within a dwelling usable for any combination of: sleeping, eating, cooking, recreation or working purposes. LOT A parcel of land in one ownership, used or set aside and available for use, as the site of one (1) or more buildings and accessory structures or for any other purpose. LOT, CORNER A lot abutting two (2) or more streets at their intersections. LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE OR THROUGH A lot having frontage on two (2) or more streets, but not at their intersections. LOT, INTERIOR A lot other than a corner lot. LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE A double frontage lot having a rear yard on a major street and a front yard and access to a local or marginal access street. LOT, FLAG A parcel of land which does not have the required minimum lot width at the building line but has direct access to a public street through a narrow strip of land which is part of the same lot. The lot lines of the narrow portion of the lot (the flag pole) are parallel or nearly parallel. These provisions are 20  intended for tracts with limited frontage that would limit the number of lots with the required width, but the tract would have sufficient area to the rear for an additional lot or two. See illustration overleaf for examples of various types of lots defined herein including flag lot. LOT AREA OR LOT SITE The minimum area contained within the property of the individual parcels of land shown on a subdivision plat or survey. Lot area excludes any area within an existing or future street right-of-way or any area devoted to common open space. LOT FRONTAGE The lot width measured at the street line. When a lot has more than one (1) street line, lot width shall be measured and the minimum lot width required by this Ordinance shall be provided at each such line. LOT LINE A line bounding a lot which divides one (1) lot from another or from a street or from any other public or private place. LOT LINE, REAR That lot line which is parallel to and most distant from the front line of the lot. In the case of an irregular or triangular lot, a line ten feet (10°) in length, entirely within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line shall be considered to be the rear lot line. In the case of a corner lot or a double frontage lot, there are no rear lot lines, but only side lot lines. See examples below. LOT LINE, SIDE Any lot line other than a front lot line or a rear lot line. LOT LINE, FRONT The lot line which the principal structure faces shall be considered the front yard of the lot. In cases where structures face two streets, the lot line that has the least frontage shall be deemed to be the front yard. Where lot lines are approximately the same, the owner shall specify which shall be considered the front yard. LOT OF RECORD Any validly recorded lot, which at the time of its recording, complied with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations. LOT WIDTH The minimum distance measured between the side lot lines at the required building setback line. In the case of only one side lot line, lot width is the distance measured between the side lot line and the opposite lot line. NON-CONFORMITIES Lawful uses of lots, structures or characteristics of uses which, as a result of the adoption or subsequent amendment to this Ordinance, no longer conform to all applicable zoning provisions. OPEN SPACE, COMMON Land area within a residential development that is held in common ownership and maintained by a homeowner’s association for all of the residents for recreation, protection of natural land features, amenities or buffers; is freely accessible to all residents of the development; and, is protected by the provisions of this ordinance to insure that it remains in such uses. Common open space does not include surface water bodies, (i.e. rivers, streams, lakes or ponds) nor land occupied by non-residential buildings, common drive- ways or parking areas or street right-of-way; nor does it include lots for single- family or multifamily dwellings. Common open space shall be left in a natural state or landscaped, except in the case of recreational structures. OUTDOOR STORAGE The keeping, in an unenclosed area, of any goods, materials, merchandise, products or vehicles in the same place for more than forty-eight (48) hours. OWNER The person or persons having the right and legal title to, beneficial interest in or a contractual right to purchase a lot or parcel of land. PERIMETER The boundaries or borders of a lot, tract or parcel of land. PLANNING COMMISSION Shall mean the Planning Commission of the City of Fultondale, Alabama. PORCH A roofed open area, which may be windowed or screened, attached to and with direct access to or from a building. A porch becomes a-room within the building when heated or air conditioned or when the walled area is less than twenty percent (20%) windowed or screened. 22  PREMISES A lot, parcel, tract or plot or land together with the structures thereon. PROPERTY LINE The lot line or boundary line. RETAIL The provision of services or the sale of goods and merchandise at retail prices to the general public at large for personal or household use or consumption. SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA An accessory structure designed to receive television broadcasts relayed by microwave signals from earth orbiting communication satellites. SCREEN To visually shield or obscure one abutting or nearby structure or use from another by means of opaque fencing, walls, berms or densely planted vegetation. SIGHT TRIANGLE A triangular-shaped portion of land established at street or driveway intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering or leaving the intersection. See typical illustration below. KEM COA \ OSTRLET 4 7 7 SIGHT Zz TRIANGLE “NZ ——___—. — ~ 4+ 7   SITE A parcel or parcels of land intended to have one or more buildings or intended to be subdivided into one or more lots. 23  SITE AREA A minimum land area required to qualify for a particular use or development. Site area is taken from an actual site survey and excludes: - Land within an existing or future street right-of-way, or utility right-of-way easement; - Land which is not contiguous or is cut off by a major barrier; = Land which is part of a previously - approved development; and - Land which is zoned for another use. SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE A use which is permitted, subject to special exception is a use that would not generally be appropriate without restriction(s) throughout the zoning district; but which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would not be detrimental to public health. This use is permitted subject to a Special Exception Use permit being granted by the Fultondale Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance. STORY That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor and upper surface of the floor or ceiling next above. A mezzanine or partial floor shall be counted as a story if the vertical distance from the floor next below to the floor or ceiling next above is twenty-four (24°) feet or more. A basement shall be counted as a story if it is used as livable area (in the case of dwellings) or is used by the principal use (in the case of other uses) a story if it is used as livable area in the case of dwellings or is used by the principal use in the case of all other uses. STREET Any vehicular way which has been dedicated to the public use, including all land within the right-of-way. STRUCTURE Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground or attached to anything having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are structures, but not all structures are buildings. SUBDIVISION The division of a lot, tract or parcel or land into two (2) or more lots, plats, sites or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or building development. Such term includes re- subdivision of land, and when appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or territory subdivided. © TERRACE A level, landscaped or surfaced area on a lot directly adjacent to or close to a principal building and not covered by a permanent roof. 24  TRAVEL TRAILER/ RECREATIONAL VEHICLE A structure that is intended to be transported over the streets, either driven as a motor vehicle or attached to or hauled by a motor vehicle and is designed for temporary recreational use as sleeping quarters but does not meet the definitional criteria of a manufactured (mobile) home. USE The activity or function that actually takes place or is intended to take place on a lot or site. VARIANCE A relaxation or waiver of the terms of this Ordinance (other than use provisions) as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship. However, in all cases the spirit of this Ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done, as determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. YARD A minimum open area, unobstructed from the ground up, extending along a lot line and inward to the structure. The yard shall be measured as the shortest distance between the structure and the lot line. YARD, FRONT A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line between side lot lines and from the front lot line to the front building line in depth. YARD, SIDE A yard lying between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of the building and extending from the front yard to the rear yard, or in the absence of either of such front or rear yards, to the front or rear lot lines. YARD, REAR A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying between the rear lot line and the nearest line of the building. See typical illustrations of yards below. STREET LAXALS LATA LS  STREET  25  Section 5.0 Uses Defined When referred to in this Ordinance, the following uses shall have the meanings defined in this section: Sel Agricultural Uses FARM A parcel of land, in one ownership, used for agricultural purposes, including: farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, Viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary uses for packing, treating or storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities. FARM SUPPORT BUSINESS A commercial establishment engaged in the sale of farm support goods and services, including the following activities: - the sale of feed, grains, fertilizers, pesticides and similar farm support goods; - the provision of warehousing and storage facilities for raw farm products; and, “ the provision of veterinary services to farm animals. FOWL Chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, quail, guineas, etc. HOBBY FARM A two acre or larger tract of land used for the keeping or maintenance of farm animals personally useful to the occupants of a dwelling on the same tract. KENNEL The keeping of three (3) or more dogs on a lot or premises whether permanently or temporarily kept. LIVESTOCK Cows, horses, goats, sheep, swine, ponies, etc. LIVESTOCK SALES The sale of animal livestock within an enclosed yard or structure, including livestock markets, horse or cattle auctions and similar activities. STABLE, PRIVATE An accessory building in which horses are kept for private use and not for commercial purposes, hire or sale. STABLE, PUBLIC An accessory building in which horses are kept for commercial use including boarding, hire and sale. 26  5.2 Residential Uses APARTMENT Three (3) or more attached, multifamily dwelling units within a building of three stories or less. DUPLEX Two (2) attached, single-family dwelling units. GARDEN HOME A detached, single-family dwelling designed on a small lot with one (1) zero lot line on one side. See typical configuration overleaf. ZERO LOT LINE  MANUFACTURED HOME, (MOBILE HOME) A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in its traveling mode, is eight body feet (8”) or more in width or forty body feet (40°) or more in length, or when erected on site, is three hundred and twenty (320) square feet, or more, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit with or without a permanent foundation, connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. If constructed on or before June 15, 1976, the unit bears a seal certifying compliance with the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (DHUD). MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME SUBDIVISION A division of a tract of land - ten (10) acres or more, into two (2) or more lots, plats, sites or other subdivision of land which meets all required regulations and are owner occupied. MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME PARK A twenty (20) acre or larger tract of land used or designed to accommodate a manufactured (mobile) home community of multiple spaces for rent or lease. ~ MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME LOT A lot that is designed for use within a manufactured (mobile) home subdivision. 27  5.3 MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME SPACE A space that is designed for use within a manufactured (mobile) home park. MODULAR HOME A dwelling constructed on-site in accordance with the Standard Building Code. It is composed of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the building site for final assembly On a permanent foundation. A modular home is not a manufactured home in that the latter (manufactured home) is constructed in a plant in accordance with the U.S. Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and does not meet the requirements of the Standard Building Code. SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE A _ detached, single-family dwelling constructed on-site and in accordance with the requirements of the Standard Building Code. TOWNHOUSE Two (2) attached single-family dwellings, or more, within a building of six (6) or less units, in which each unit shares a common wall and in which each unit occupies its own individual lot. Institutional Uses ANIMAL SHELTER A non-profit or public organization providing shelter for small, domestic animals. BOARDING HOUSE A dwelling for the residency of two or more boarders on a long term basis (at least month to month). Each unit is intended to be rented and does not constitute a dwelling unit as defined in this Ordinance. CEMETERY Human burial grounds. PET CEMETERY Burial grounds for small domestic animals (pets). CLUB A group of people organized for a common purpose to pursue common goals, interests and activities and usually characterized by certain membership qualifications, payment of fees or dues, which holds regular meetings and has a constitution or by-laws. COMMUNITY CENTER OR CIVIC CENTER A building, structure or other facility used for and providing religious, fraternal, social and/or recreational programs and activities generally open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments of the community. COUNTRY CLUB Land or buildings containing recreational facilities and a club house for private club members and their guests. 28  DOMICILIARY CARE FACILITY Homes for the aged, intermediate institutions and related institutions (not otherwise defined in this Ordinance) which are licensed by all applicable authorities and agencies and whose primary purpose is to furnish room, board, laundry personal care and other non-medical services, regardless of what it may be named or called, for not less than twenty- four (24) hours in any week, to individuals not related by blood or marriage to the owner or administrator. This kind of care implies sheltered protection and a supervised environment for persons, who, because of age or disabilities, are incapable of living independently in their own homes or in a commercial board and room situation, yet who do not require the medical and nursing services provided by a Nursing Home. In these facilities, there might be available, temporarily and incidentally, the same type of limited medical attention that an individual would receive if living at home. GARAGE, PRIVATE An accessory building designed or used for the storage of motor driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is an accessory. HALFWAY HOUSE A licensed home for inmates on release from more restrictive custodial confinement or initially placed in lieu of more restrictive custodial confinement, wherein supervision, rehabilitation and counseling are provided to mainstream residents back into society, enabling them to live independently. HOSPITAL An establishment which provides health services primarily for in- patient medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including accessory facilities such as: laboratories, pharmacies, out-patient clinics, training facilities, gift shops, coffee shops, cafeterias and staff offices. MILITARY INSTALLATION A government-sponsored defense facility, including: military bases, national guard armories, military reserve centers and similar uses. NURSING CARE FACILITY A licensed institution maintained for the purpose of providing skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower level than that provided in a hospital but at a higher level than that provided in a domiciliary care facility. PARK Publicly-owned and operated parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities and open spaces. PENAL INSTITUTION A public institution housing inmates for correction or rehabilitation. PLACE OF WORSHIP Buildings arranged for religious purposes, such as churches and synagogues, including: related facilities for instruction, meeting, recreation, lodging, eating and other integrally related activities. 29  5.4 PUBLIC ASSEMBLY CENTER Buildings arranged for the general assembly of the public for community events, including: coliseums, stadiums and similar uses. PUBLIC BUILDING Buildings arranged for the purpose of providing public services, not otherwise defined in this section, including: government offices, post offices, museums, libraries, transit stations, police and fire stations, emergency service stations, civil defense operations and similar uses. PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY A facility that provides public utility services to the public at large, including: water and sewer facilities, gas distribution facilities, electric transmission and distribution facilities, and cable transmission and distribution facilities. PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE Essential utility services necessary to support development and which involve only minor structures such as lines and poles. SCHOOL A public or non-profit school. Commercial Uses AIRPORT A place where aircraft can land and take off. Such use may include: terminals, hangers, refueling and repair facilities, passenger accommodations and other integrally related facilities. ANIMAL HOSPITAL A place where small household pets are given medical treatment which may also include surgical treatment and in which short term boarding of pets, within an enclosed building, may be provided. BAKERY (MINOR) An establishment which bakes goods for on-premise retail sale only. BANK OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTION A business engaged in providing banking or financial services to the general public, such as a bank, savings and loan institution, credit union, finance company and similar uses. BED AND BREAKFAST INN A house, or portion thereof, where short-term lodging rooms and meals are provided. The operator of the inn shall live on the premises or in adjacent premises. BROADCAST STUDIO Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished through the use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms, including: film and sound recording, a radio station, a television studio or a telegraphic service office: BUSINESS OR PROFESSIONAL OFFICE A place where the administrative affairs of a business or a profession is conducted, such as: the office of a law firm, accounting or bookkeeping firm, real estate agency, insurance agency, 30  financial planner, architect, secretarial service, physician or dentist, engineer, the administrative staff of business or industry and similar uses. BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICE A place of business which supplies support services primarily to business or professional offices or services, such as: photocopy, office equipment, supplies and services, cleaning services, computer and office equipment repair and similar services. CAMPGROUND A group of buildings or structures, on a site of ten (10) acres or more (planned as a whole), for seasonal recreation or vacation uses, including tent campsites, travel trailer/recreational vehicle sites, vacation cottages, recreational facilities, eating facilities such as picnic tables, outdoor grills, bathrooms; and, may include a facility which sells personal items and gifts. CAR WASH A commercial establishment engaged in washing or cleaning of automobiles and light vehicles. Such facility may be automated or employ the services of individuals to perform such services manually. Such facility shall contain bays which are partially enclosed with a roof over them and all water discharged from this facility which is used in connection with the washing of vehicles shall be in complete compliance with both City and Alabama Department Of Environmental Management Requirements. CLINIC A facility providing medical, psychiatric or surgical services for sick or injured persons exclusively on an out-patient basis. COMMERCIAL PARKING Parking of motor vehicles on a temporary basis within a commercially-operated, off-street parking lot or garage. COMMERCIAL SCHOOL A private, gainful business providing instructional service in: the arts, business, crafts, trades or professions. CONVENIENCE STORE A one-story retail establishment with less than two thousand (2,000) square feet of gross floor area that is primarily designed to sell food, beverages, and other household goods and products to customers who purchase only a relatively few items at a time (in contrast to a supermarket). Such an establishment may also engage in the incidental sale of vehicle fuel, oil and accessories. However, such business shall not engage in either major or minor vehicle repair activities as defined in this Ordinance or the permanent or temporary storage of heavy equipment, or other vehicles on the premises). DAY CARE CENTER A licensed facility, other than a residence, providing day care on a regular basis to more than six (6): children, elderly, handicapped or infirm persons. ~  DAY CARE HOME A licensed service operated from a dwelling by the resident, providing day care on a regular basis to six (6) or less: children, elderly or infirm persons. 31  ENTERTAINMENT, INDOOR A commercial establishment providing spectator entertainment within an enclosed building, including movie theaters, playhouses, etc. ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR A commercial establishment providing spectator entertainment in open or partially enclosed or screened facilities, including: sports arenas, racing tracks, drive-in theaters, amusement parks, etc. FUNERAL HOME A building or part thereof used for human funeral services. Such building may contain space and facilities for: a) embalming and the performance of other services used in preparation of the dead for burial b) the performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures c) the storage of caskets, funeral urns, and other related funeral supplies d) space for the storage of funeral vehicles, but shall not include facilities for cremation. Where a funeral home is permitted, a funeral chapel shall also be permitted as an incidental use. GARAGE, REPAIR Any place of business engaged in major vehicle repair activities as defined in this Ordinance. Such establishments may also engage in minor vehicle repair activities as well but shall not engage in the sale of vehicle fuel and all major vehicle repair work shall be performed entirely within an enclosed building. No such building or premises shall be used for the parking of vehicles which are offered for sale, nor shall any abandoned or inoperative motor vehicles be permanently stored on the premises. GARDEN CENTER OR NURSERY Retail sale of plants, trees, shrubs and the like for ornamental purposes, conducted from a building, greenhouse, outdoor display area or stand, including incidental sales of items customarily associated with such sales activities, including such items as: containers, fertilizers, ornaments, mulch, potting soil, small gardening tools, gardening equipment and seeds. GASOLINE SERVICE STATION A commercial establishment providing fuel, lubricants, parts and accessories for vehicles, which may also engage in the incidental sale of food items and beverages. Gasoline service stations may also engage in minor vehicle repair activities as defined in this section. However, neither the principal building nor the premises shall be used for the parking and display of motor vehicles offered for sale, nor shall such building or premises be used for the permanent storage of inoperable motor vehicles, heavy equipment, tractor trailers, or other motor vehicles not incidential to the operation of the business. All gasoline storage tanks shall be in full compliance with Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) requirements, as well as all local regulations. 32  GENERAL RETAIL, ENCLOSED Retail sales of goods and services, not otherwise defined in this section, including, but not limited to: food sales, department stores, clothing stores, home furnishings, appliance stores, automobile parts and supply stores, video rental, gift shops, florist shops, hardware stores, specialty shops, jewelry stores, variety stores, sporting goods stores, antique shops and similar retail activities. GENERAL RETAIL, UNENCLOSED Retail sales of goods and services not otherwise defined in this section, conducted partially or fully outside of a building, including, but not limited to: sidewalk sales, flea markets, outdoor food service and similar activities. GROCERY STORE/ SUPER MARKET A retail establishment which is usually in excess of 2,000 square feet in which the following items are normally sold: food items, beverages, household supplies, personal care items, etc. Such an establishment may also include magazine sales, the sale of automobile maintenance supplies, a deli and/ or bakery; but, shall not engage in any form of vehicle repair or maintenance or the sale of vehicle fuel. However, such premises shall not be used for the storage or display of vehicles offered for sale, or the storage or parking of heavy equipment, buses, tractor trailers and similar vehicles. HOME OCCUPATION A business, profession, occupation or trade conducted for gain or support and located entirely within the living area of a dwelling as an incidental activity of the residents of that dwelling. Moreover, such activity shall not alter the exterior of the property or affect the residential character of the neighborhood in which it is located. HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER A place of business providing building, yard and garden materials, appliances, tools and supplies at retail or wholesale. HOTEL OR MOTEL A commercial facility offering transient lodging accommodations on a daily or weekly basis to nine (9) or more guests. Such facility may also include, as an integral part of operations, such services as: restaurants, meeting rooms, banquet rooms, gift shops, recreational facilities, etc. Hotels and motels may also include, as an incidental use, a liquor lounge in which liquor is sold for on-premise consumption. LIQUOR LOUNGE A licensed establishment engaged in the preparation, sale or serving of liquor for consumption on the premises. This shall include, but not be limited to, the following terms: taverns, bars, cocktail lounges, nightclubs and similar uses where liquor consumption is a primary or incidental activity on the premises of the establishment. Not included in this definition are establishments which sell alcoholic beverages for off-premise consumption only, such as: a package store, State Alcoholic Beverage Store, supermarket, etcr MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME SALES A lot or tract of land used for the display of manufactured (mobile) homes for sale. ao  MEDICAL SUPPORT SERVICE A place of business which supplies medical support services to: individuals, medical practitioners, clinics, and hospitals, such as: a pharmacy (where the business activity is limited to the filling of prescriptions and the sale of drugs and medical supplies), medical and surgical supply store, an optician and the like. MINI-WAREHOUSE A structure/ structures partitioned for the leasing of individual storage spaces and used exclusively for the storage of non-volatile, non- toxic and non-explosive materials. The facility shall not be used for retail or wholesale operations; however, such a facility may be permitted to hold periodic auctions to dispose off unclaimed materials and goods that are stored and not . reclaimed by the party or parties signing the lease agreement. OPEN-AIR MARKET Retail sales of: arts, crafts, produce, discount or used goods which are located partially or wholly outside of an enclosed building. This may include: produce markets, craft markets, farmers markets or similar activities. PERSONAL SERVICE A retail establishment engaged in providing services involving the care of a person or persons, such as: a barber shop, beauty shop, cosmetic studio, dry cleaning and laundry service, laundromat, indoor exercise and fitness center, tanning salon, seamstress, shoe repair, travel agency, locksmith, interior decorator, formal wear rental and similar uses. PRINTING ESTABLISHMENT (MINOR) Blue printing, copying, printing, engraving or other reproduction services limited to 2,500 square feet of floor space/ area. RECREATION A commercial establishment providing recreational or sports activities to participants, including: bowling alleys, billiard parlors, video game centers, ice and roller skating rinks, driving ranges, miniature golf courses, conventional golf courses, swimming pools, tennis courts and other commercial recreational and sports activities. RESTAURANT, STANDARD An establishment where food and drink are prepared, served and primarily consumed within the building where patrons are seated and served. RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD An establishment where food and drink are rapidly prepared for carry-out, fast delivery, drive-thru or drive-in and may also include facilities for standard sit-down consumption by patrons. SHOPPING CENTER A group of commercial establishments Iocated on a lot, planned and developed in a unified manner and design, with shared parking and driveway facilities and under a common ownership or management authority. The premises shall not be used for the parking of vehicles offered for sale. 34  5.5 STUDIO A place of work for an artist, photographer or craftsman, including: instruction, display, production and retail sales of materials produced on the premises. TRUCK STOP A commercial establishment which may contain a restaurant (standard) or a delicatessen; a gift shop; provisions for the incidental sale gasoline, including diesel fuel; designated areas for the temporary parking of large trucks/rigs, including overnight parking; and, the sale of vehicle equipment, motor oil and other vehicle accessories. Such a facility may also engage in minor vehicle repair activities, as defined in this ordinance; however, such a facility or premise shall not be used for the permanent storage of the types of equipment mentioned above. There shall be no display of vehicles or equipment offered for — sale or the storage of inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles. This use shall not be confused with TRUCK TERMINAL, defined herein. VEHICLE SALES OR RENTAL A commercial establishment engaged in the sale or rental of: automobiles, light trucks, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, boats, motorcycles; including the incidental: parking, storage, maintenance, servicing and repair of such vehicles. (All servicing and repair work shall be performed within an enclosed building, with the exception of the washing and waxing of such vehicles.) VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR A place of business engaged in the repair and maintenance of vehicles including: painting, body work, rebuilding of engines or transmissions, upholstery work, fabrication of parts and similar activities, all of which shall be performed entirely within an enclosed building. VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR A place of business engaged in: sales, installation, and servicing of mechanical equipment and parts; including: audio equipment and electrical work, lubrication, tune-ups, wheel alignment, tire balancing, brake and muffler work, battery charging and/or replacement and similar activities. All such work shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building except for minor work which can be performed relatively quickly such as battery recharging, tire repair, and similar light activities. Industrial Uses BAKERY, MAJOR An establishment which bakes goods primarily for wholesale and/ or retail and in which may include storage and distribution facilities. CONSTRUCTION SERVICE A place of business engaged in construction activities and incidental storage as well as wholesaling of building materials (but not a home improvement center which also sells at retail) such-as: a building contractor, trade contractor or wholesale building supply store. 35  HEAVY INDUSTRY Meat or poultry processing, slaughterhouse, the storage or manufacturing of flammable, explosive or toxic materials or other materials generally considered to be hazardous or offensive in nature. INDUSTRIAL PARK An industrial park is a tract of land, the control and administration of which is vested in a single body, suitable for industrial use because of the location, topography, zoning, availability of utilities and accessibility to transportation. (See Article VIII, Section 12.0). MANUFACTURING, GENERAL The basic processing and manufacturing of materials or products predominantly from extracted or raw materials and the incidental storage, sale and distribution of such products. MANUFACTURING, LIGHT The manufacture, predominantly from previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including: processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packing of such products, and the incidental storage, sale and distribution of such products. MAINTENANCE SERVICE An establishment providing building and yard maintenance services, such as: janitorial services, exterminating services, landscaping services, window cleaning services, office cleaning services and similar uses. PRINTING ESTABLISHMENT, MAJOR Blue printing, copying, printing, engraving or other reproduction services with no limit on floor space/ area. RECYCLING PLANT A facility that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable resources, such as: newspapers, magazines, books and other paper products, glass, metal cans, and other products which are recycled, reprocessed and treated to return such products to a condition in which they may again be used for production. RESEARCH LABORATORY A building or group of buildings in which are located facilities for: scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation, but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products, except as incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory. RESOURCE EXTRACTION The removal of: soil, sand, clay, gravel, minerals or similar materials for commercial purposes; including: quarries, sand and gravel operations, gas extraction and mining operations. SALVAGE YARD OR JUNK YARD A lot or structure or part thereof, used primarily for: the collecting, storage and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal or discarded material or for: the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof. 36   5.6 SANITARY LANDFILL A state approved site for solid waste disposal employing an engineering method of disposing of solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by: spreading, compacting to the smallest volume and applying cover material over all exposed waste at the end of each operating day. NOTE: A sanitary landfill should not be confused with a dump. Solid waste at a dump is disposed of without being compacted and covered. A sanitary landfill presents fewer health and aesthetic problems and has the potential of being reclaimed for other land uses later. Hazardous or radioactive waste material disposal is not permitted in a sanitary landfill. TRANSMISSION TOWER A tower used for the transmission of radio and television signals to the general public or private receivers, other than amateur radio towers and towers used by a public facility. TRUCK TERMINAL Land and buildings used as a relay station for the transfer of a load from one vehicle to another or one party to another. The terminal cannot be used for permanent or long-term accessory storage for principal land uses at other locations. The terminal facility may include storage areas for trucks and buildings or areas for the repair and maintenance of trucks associated with the terminal. VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT SALES, MAJOR A place of business engaged in the sale or rental of: heavy trucks (over one ton), construction equipment, tractors and farm implements, and similar equipment; including: the storage, maintenance, and servicing of such vehicles and equipment. Temporary Uses GARAGE OR YARD SALES The sale by a resident, conducted on the premises his or her dwelling, of personal property belonging to the occupant of such dwelling. See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, Section 9.0, Garage or Yard Sales. SEASONAL SALES Unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance, the seasonal sale of farm produce, firewood, Christmas trees and similar items shall be conducted either from motor vehicles or premises. Such items shall not be sold from permanent structures/locations and the use of structures or buildings in conjunction with said activity shall be temporary as specified by the City and subject to the City’s conditions at the time a business license is issued. This term shall not be confused with OPEN AIR MARKET, defined in this Ordinance. 37   In no case shall basements of dwellings, residences or buildings be used as temporary living space prior to the total completion of the structure. Section 4.0 Joint Occupancy No structure shall be erected, structurally altered for or used as a single-family or two- family dwelling simultaneously with any other use. Section 5.0 Public Utilities Utility structures including, but not limited to: poles, wires, cross-arms, transformers attached to poles, guy wires, insulators, conduits (and other facilities necessary for the transmission or distribution of electric power or to provide telephone or telegraph service), pipe lines, vents, valves, hydrants, regulators, meters and other facilities necessary for the transmission or distribution of gas, oil, water or other utilities may be constructed, erected, repaired, maintained or replaced within any district of the City. This is not to be construed to include the erection or construction of buildings. (See district regulations for public utility facilities and services.) Section 6.0 Non-conforming Uses Within the districts established by this Ordinance or amendments that may be later adopted, there exist: lots, structures, uses of land and structures and characteristics of use which were lawful before the Ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this Ordinance or future amendment; it is the intent of this Ordinance to permit these non-conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this Ordinance that non-conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded nor used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district in which the non-conforming use is located. 6.1 Non-Conforming Lots of Record Where a lot of record existed at the time of the effective date of this Ordinance having less area or width than herein required for the district in which it is located, the following shall apply: Said lot may none-the-less be used as a building site provided the yard space and other requirements conform as closely as possible with the requirements of the district in which it is located, in the opinion of the Zoning Board of Adjustment. However, this provision shall not apply when two or more lots exist together, with contiguous frontage in single ownership at the time of passage of this Ordinance or any time thereafter. Such land shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this Ordinance and shall not be used or sold in a manner which creates lot area or width below the requirements stated in this Ordinance. 39  Section 7.0 Continuance A lawful non-conforming use existing at the effective date of this Ordinance may be continued, except as hereafter provided; although, such use does not conform with the provisions of this Ordinance subject to the conditions outlined in Sections 6.0 and 6.1, Section 8.0 Restoration To Safe Condition Nothing in this Ordinance shall prevent the restoration of any building or structure to a safe or sanitary condition when Tequired by the proper authorities. Section 9.0 Restoration After Damages No non-conforming building or structure which has been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than fifty percent (50 %) of its current Teplacement value at the time of such damage shall be rebuilt or restored except in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. Ifa non-conformin g building is damaged less than fifty percent (50%) of its current replacement value, it may be rebuilt or restored and used as before the damage, provided that such rebuilding or restoration is completed within twelve (12) months of the date of such Section 10.0 Abandonment A non-conforming use which has been discontinued for a continuous period of six months shall not be re-established and any future use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. Section 11.0 Annexed Property Owners of property who have requested the annexation of their property into the City of Fultondale shall be subject to The Fultondale Planning Commission’s recommendation for annexation of the Property to the City Council. At the time the Tequest is considered by the City ‘ Council, a recommendation for zoning of the property shall have been made in accordance with the provisions of the MR Municipal Reserve District. Section 12.0 Change In Use A non-conforming use shall not be changed to another non-conforming use, 40   Section 13.0 Abandoned Right-of-way Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated or abandoned by official action of the City of Fultondale, the zoning district adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of same and all area included therein shall then be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended district. Section 14.0 Abatement of Noise, Smoke, Gas, Vibration, Fumes, Dust, Fire and Explosion Hazard or Nuisance The Zoning Board of Adjustment may require the conduct of any use, conforming or non-conforming, which results in: unreasonable noise, smoke, gas, vibration, fumes, dust, fire, radio interference or explosion hazard or nuisance to surrounding property to be modified or changed to abate such hazard to health, comfort and convenience. The Zoning Board of Adjustment may direct the Building Inspector to issue an abatement order but such order may be directed only after a public hearing by the said board, the notice of which shall be sent by registered mail to the owners and/or operators of the property on which the use is conducted in addition to due notice by advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation. A hearing to consider issuance of an abatement order shall be held by the Zoning Board of Adjustment either upon petition signed by any person affected by the hazard or nuisance or upon the initiative of the Board. An abatement order shall be directed by the Zoning Board of Adjustment only upon reasonable evidence of hazard or nuisance and such order shall clearly specify the date by which the hazard or nuisance shall be abated. Section 15.0 Reduction In Lot Area Prohibited No lot shall be reduced in area so that yards and other open spaces total less than the minimum area required under this Ordinance. (See Subsection 6.1.) Section 16.0 Structures Conforming To District Regulations But Not Other Regulations A structure or building conforming to the use regulations of a district, but not conforming to other provisions of this Ordinance, may be enlarged or altered, provided that such enlargement or alteration conforms with the provisions of this Ordinance. Section 17.0 Buildings To Be Moved Any building or structure which is to be moved to any location within the City limits of the City of Fultondale shall be considered for the purpose of this Ordinance to be a new building under construction, and as such, shall conform to all applicable provisions of this Ordinance. 41  ARTICLE VI ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this Ordinance, the City of Fultondale is hereby divided into the following districts or zones. The location, boundaries and area of which are, and shall be as shown and depicted upon the official zoning map. Said districts or zones are to be as follows: AG Agricultural District E-1 Single family Residential District (Estate) R-1 Single family Residential District R-2 Single family Residential District R-2A Affordable Housing District R-3 Multifamily Residential District RG Single family Residential (Garden Home District) RT Townhouse Residential District MP ' Manufactured (Mobile) Home Park District MS Manufactured (Mobile) Home Subdivision District O-1 Office Building District B-1 Neighborhood Business District B-2 General Business District M-1I Light Industrial District M-2 Heavy Industrial District M-3-S Strip Mining District MR Municipal Reserve District The boundaries of the above districts are hereby established as shown on the official zoning map of the City of Fultondale. Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall be decided by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, as outlined in Article II, Subsection 2.9, Administration and Review Procedures. The zoning district regulations are as described below. Section 1.0 AG Agricultural District 1.1 Intent This district consists primarily of undeveloped lands where agricultural and related pursuits may occur within the City and where agriculture support centers may serve outlying rural areas beyond the City. Furthermore, the intent of the AG District is to preserve these areas in: agriculture, forestry, outdoor recreational, rural residential and other limited, yet compatible uses until suchttime as a higher density development pattern may be desired and City services can be expanded to accommodate this development. ad  1.2 Uses Permitted The following uses shall be permitted in the AG Agricultural District. Similar uses to those listed below may also be permitted subject to Article I, Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10, Interpretation Of Uses and subsection 2.11, Unclassified Uses. A. Agricultural Uses ly Farms, See Article IV Definitions, Section 5.0, Subsection 5.13 Article VI, Supplemental Regulations, Section 11.0. 2. Hobby Farms, Subject to Article VIII, Section 2.0. S 4. Stables (private) Kennels B. Residential Uses i, Why NAY Detached Single family Residences, provided, however, recording of subdivisions with lots of three (3) acres or more shall be permitted. Duplexes Manufactured (Mobile) Homes Subject to Article VI, Section 12.0. Accessory Structures and Buildings, Subject to Article VI, Section 6.0. Private Tennis Courts, Subject to Article VIII, Section 11.0. . Private Swimming Pools, Subject to Article VII, Section 10.0. Non-Commercial Greenhouses and Gardens. Cc. Institutional Uses 3 9? gal ON AT Ge Pore Clubs Community Centers Country Clubs Parks Places of Worship Public Buildings Public Utility Facilities Public Utility Services Schools D. Commercial Uses fe 2 Animal Hospitals Bed and Breakfast Inns Produce Stands, Subject to Article VI, Section 11:0 Studios E. Temporary Uses 43  1.3 1.4 1. Garage or Yard Sales, Subject to Article VII, Section 9.0. Special Exception Uses The following uses may also be permitted, subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIM, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A. Agricultural Uses 1. Farm Support Businesses 2. Livestock Sales B. Institutional Uses 1 Peet GN YP > bo be a Animal Shelters Boarding Houses Cemeteries, Subject to Article VIII, Section 8.0. Domiciliary Care Facilities Halfway Houses Military Installations Penal Institutions Pet Cemeteries Public Assembly Centers C. Commercial Uses SOMNIADN 1. Airports 2. Broadcast Studios 3. 4. Commercial Chicken Houses (Fowl) See Additional Regulations, 1.6 Campgrounds (H). Day Care Homes Entertainment, outdoor , é Home Occupations, Subject to Article VII, Section 9.0. Open Air Markets Manufactured (Mobile) Home Sales . Stables (Commercial) D. Industrial Uses 1. Transmission Towers, Subject to Article VIII, Section 13.0. Area And Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: 44  Minimum Lot Area: 15,000 Square Feet Minimum Lot Width: 150 Feet at the Building Line. Minimum Yard Setback: Front: — 35 Feet* Rear: 35 Feet Side: 20 Feet * Undedicated road - 60 feet from the centerline. Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on both streets or roads. 1.5 Buffer Requirements None specified; although, in appropriate cases, the Planning Commission, during its site plan review process, may require a buffer or other suitable means of separation of land uses. See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. 1.6 Additional Regulations (When Applicable) Administration and Review Procedures, Article III. Definitions, Article IV. General Regulations, Article V. Supplemental Regulations, Article VII. Special Exception Uses, Article VIII. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article LX. Sign Regulations, Article X. = OFA OAnP In the A-1 Agricultural District, the minimum setback of livestock barns and commercial chicken (fowl) houses from adjoining property lines shall be one hundred feet (100°); from highway (road) right-of- way lines, it shall be three hundred feet (300°), provided, however, that no livestock barn or commercial chicken (fowl) houses shall be built closer than three hundred feet (300°) to the nearest then existing residence other than that of the owner. Swine (hogs) are to be housed, fed and/or watered not nearer than one hundred feet (100°) to any adjoining property line or within three hundred feet (300°) of any adjoining property line or within three hundred feet (300’) of any road or street right-of-way. Section 2.0 E-1 Single family Residential District (Estate) ~ 2.1 Intent To provide areas suitable for detached single family residences on large lots, along 45  2.2 2.3 with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. Uses Permitted The following uses shall be permitted in the E-1 Single-Family Residential District. Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted Subject to Article IM, Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10 Interpretation of Uses, and Subsection 2.11, Unclassified Uses. A. Agricultural Uses 1. Hobby Farms, Subject to Article VIII, Section 2.0. B. Residential Uses 1. Detached Single-Family Residences 2. Accessory Buildings and Structures, Subject to Article VII, Section 6.0. 3. Private Tennis Courts, Subject to Article VIII, Section 11.0. 4. Private Swimming Pools, Subject to Article VII, Section 10.0. 5. Non-commercial Greenhouses and Gardens Cc. Institutional Uses 1. Parks 2. Public Utility Services D. Temporary Uses 1, Garage or Yard Sales, Subject to Article VII, Section 9.0. Special Exception Uses The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A. Institutional Uses Country Clubs Places of Worship Public Buildings, Subject to Section 2.0, Subsection 2.5. Public Utility Facilities Schools oe 46  2.4 2.5 2.6 B. Commercial Uses 1. Day Care Homes 2. Home Occupations, Subject to Article VI, Section 9.0. Area and Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: Minimum Lot Area: 20,000 Square Feet Minimum Lot Width: 100 Feet at the Building Line. Minimum Yard Setback: Front: 50 Feet* Rear: 50 Feet Side: 15 Feet Maximum Height: 35 Feet or 2-1/2 Stories Minimum Floor Area: One story Residence: 2,000 Square Feet Two Story Residence: 1,400 Square Feet on first floor, Total minimum for dwelling-2,400 Square Feet. * Undedicated road - 60 feet from the centerline. Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on both streets or roads. Public Buildings In an E-1 Residential District, public buildings shall have a front yard setback of fifty feet (50°). In all other residential districts, where permitted, public buildings shall have: rear yard: thirty-five feet (35 “), side yard: thirty-five feet (35°), maximum height: forty-five feet (45°) or three (3) stories; maximum building area on a lot shall be fifty percent (50%). Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this Ordinance, when any lot is to be developed for any use other than a single-family residence and such lot abuts a lot occupied or zoned for single family residential development, a minimum buffer yard width of twenty-five feet (25’) shall be provided. See Article VII, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. 47  2.7 Section 3.0 3.1 3.2 Additional Regulations (When Applicable) A. Administration and Review Procedures, Article II. B. Definitions, Article IV. Cc. General Regulations, Article V. D. Supplemental Regulations, Article VII. E. Special Exception Uses, Article VIII. F, Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. G. Sign Regulations, Article X. R-1 Single family Residential District Intent To provide areas for medium-density, detached, single-family residences, along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. Uses Permitted The following uses shall be permitted in the R-1 Single family Residential District. Similar uses to those listed below may also be permitted, subject to Article II, Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10, Interpretation of Uses and Subsection 2.11, Unclassified Uses. A. Residential Uses 1. Accessory Structures and Buildings, Subject to Article VIL, Section 6.0. Detached Single family Residences Non-commercial Greenhouses and Gardens Private Swimming Pools, Subject to Article VII, Section 10.0. Private Tennis Courts, Subject to Article VID, Section 11.0. ee B. Institutional Usés 1. Parks 2. Public Utility Services es Temporary Uses 1. Garage or Yard Sales, Subject to Article VII, Section 9.0. 48  Jed 3.4 305 Special Exception Uses The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIM, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A, Institutional Uses . Places of Worship . Public Buildings . Public Utility Facilities Schools PWNre B. Commercial Uses 1. Day Care Homes 2. Home Occupations, Subject to Article VIII, Section 9.0. Area And Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: Minimum Lot Area: 15,000 Square Feet Minimum Lot Width: 100 Feet at the Building Line Minimum Yard Setbacks: Front: 35 Feet* Rear: 35 Feet Side: 10 Feet Minimum Floor Area: 1,200 Square Feet * Undedicated road - 60 feet from the centerline. Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on both streets or roads. Public Buildings See Subsection 2.5 in the E-1 Residential District Regulations. 49  3.6 3.7 Section 4.0 4.1 4.2 Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, when any lot is to be developed for any use other than a single-family residence and such lot abuts a lot occupied or zoned for single family residential development, a minimum buffer yard width of twenty-five feet (25’) shall be provided. (See Article VI, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3.) Additional Regulations (When Applicable) 4 Administration and Review Procedures, Article II. Definitions, Article IV. General Regulations, Article V. Supplemental Regulations, Article VI. Special Exception Uses, Article VII. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. Sign Regulations, Article X. QAASAn p> R-2 Single-Family Residential District Intent To provide areas for medium density single-family residences along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. Uses Permitted  The following uses shall be permitted in the R-2 Single-Family Residential District Similar uses to those listed below may also be permitted subject to Article Ii, Administrative and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10, Interpretation Of Uses, and Subsection 2.11, Unclassified Uses. A. Residential Uses 1. Accessory Structures and Buildings, Subject to Article VII, Section 6.0. Detached Single-Family Residences Private Swimming Pools, Subject to Article VU, Section 10.0. Private Tennis Courts, Subject to Article VII, Section 12.0. Non-commercial Greenhouses and Gardens. te B. Institutional Uses % 1. Parks 2. Public Utility Services 50  4.3 4.4 Special Exception Uses The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A. Institutional Uses Country Clubs Places of Worship Public Buildings Public Utility Facilities Schools at ee ee et B. Commercial Uses 1. Day Care Home 2. Home Occupation, Subject to Article VII, Section 9.0. Area And Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: Minimum Lot Area: 12,000 Square Feet, [15,000 square feet if septic tanks and field lines are required.] Minimum Lot Width: 75 Feet at the building line. Minimum Yard Setbacks: Front: 35 Feet* Rear: 35 Feet Side: 10 Feet Maximum Height: 35 Feet or 3 stories Interior Living Space: The minimum livable floor area, exclusive of any area contained within an attached garage or porch, required for each family shall not be less than 1,000 square feet. * Undedicated Road - 60 feet from the centerline. Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on both streets or roads. al  4.5 4.6 4.7 Section 5.0 5.1 5.2 Public Buildings See Subsection 2.5 in the E-1 Residential District Regulations. Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this Ordinance, when a lot is to be developed for any use other than a single family residence and such lot abuts a lot occupied or zoned for single family residential development, a minimum buffer yard of twenty-five feet (25’) shall be provided. See Article Vo, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. Additional Regulations ((When Applicable) A. Administration and Review Procedures, Article II. B. Definitions, Article IV. Cy General Regulations, Article V. D. Supplemental Regulations, Article VII. E. Special Exception Uses, Article VII. F, Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. G. Sign Regulations, Article X. R-2A Affordable Housing District Intent This district consists of areas suitable for a mix of single family residences and Manufactured (Mobile) Homes. The underlying intent of this district is to encourage affordable home ownership alternatives in select locations within the City. The district allows for certain accessory uses customarily associated with single family dwellings. Further, it provides for institutional uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. Uses Permitted The following uses shall be permitted in the R-2-A Affordable Housing Residential District. Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted subject to Article II, Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10, Interpretation of Uses and Subsection 2.11, Unclassified Uses. A, Agricultural Uses 1. Hobby Farms, Subject to Article VIII, Section 2.0 52  5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 B. Residential Uses 1. Accessory Structures and Buildings, Subject to Article VII, Section 6.0. Detached Single family Residences Duplexes Manufactured (Mobile) Homes Non-Commercial Greenhouses and Gardens Private Swimming Pools, Subject to Article VII, Section 10.0. Private Tennis Courts, Subject to Article VIII, Section 11.0. = Oe te Cc. Institutional Uses 1. Parks 2. Public Utility Facilities Special Exception Uses The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A, Institutional Uses Places of Worship Public Buildings Public Utility Facilities Schools ARN B. Commercial Uses 1. Day Care Homes 2. Home Occupations, Subject to Article VIII, Section 9.0. Area and Dimensional Regulations - Same as in District R-2. Public Buildings See Subsection 2.5 in the E-1 Residential District Regulations. Buffer Requirements ~ Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this Ordinance, when a lot is to be developed for any use other than a single family residence, and such lot abuts a lot occupied or zoned for single family residential development, a minimum 53  5.7 Section 6.0 6.1 6.2 buffer yard of twenty-five feet (25°) shall be provided. See Article VI Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) Administration and Review Procedures, Article II. Definitions, Article IV. General Regulations, Article V. Supplemental Regulations, Article VII. Special Exception Uses, Article VII. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX, Sign Regulations, Article X. OMIA p> R-3 Multifamily Residential District Intent To provide areas for medium density single-family residences, along with mullti- multifamily residences and selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. Uses Permitted  The following uses shall be permitted in the R-3 Multifamily Residential District, Similar uses to those listed below may also be permitted, Subject to Article TIT ; Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10, Interpretation of Uses, and Subsection 2.11 , Unclassified Uses. A. Residential Uses 1. Accessory Structures and Buildings, Subject to Article VU, Section 6.0. 2. Detached Single family Residences 3. Duplexes 4. Multifamily Dwellings 5. Non-Commercial Greenhouses and Gardens. 6. Private Swimming Pools, Subject to Article VII, Section 10.0. 8. Private Tennis Courts, Subject to Article VIII, Section 11.0. B. Institutional Uses 1. Parks 2. Public Utility Services ¥ * See Code of Alabama, 1975, § 11-52-75.1, Regulation as to housing of mentally retarded or mentally ill persons in multi-family zone. 54  6.3 6.4 Cc. Temporary Uses 1. Garage or Yard Sales, Subject to Article VIL, Section 9.0. Special Exception Uses The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1,2. A, Institutional Uses Domiciliary Care Home Halfway Houses Public Buildings Places of Worship Public Utility Facilities Schools WAYNE B. Commercial Uses 1. Bed and Breakfast Inns 2. Day Care Homes 3. Home Occupations, Subject to Article VIII, Section 9.0. Area and Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: Minimum Lot Area: One of two family dwellings, 7,500 Square Feet. For each additional family unit, add 2,000 square Feet. Minimum Lot Width: 60 Feet Minimum Yard Setbacks: Front: 25 Feet* Rear: 25 Feet Side: 8 Feet Maximum Height of Structures: 35 Feet or 3 Stories. * Undedicated Road - 60 Feet from the centerline. 55   6.5 6.6 6.7 Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on streets and roads. Interior Living Space: The minimum livable floor area required for each dwelling unit, exclusive of any area contained within a basement, attached garage or porch, shall be in accord with the following schedule:  Interior Living Space Number of Units per Dwelling Unit Per Dwelling Not less than 900 square feet 1 Not less than 700 square feet 2 to 4 inclusive Not less than 550 square feet More than 4 Units Public Buildings See Subsection 2.5 of the E-1 Single family Residential Estate District. Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this Ordinance, when any lot is to be developed for any use other than residential, and such lot abuts a lot occupied or zoned for residential use, a minimum buffer yard width of twenty-five feet (25°) shall be provided. See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. Additional Regulations (When A licable Administration and Review Procedures, Article I. Definitions, Article IV. General Regulations, Article V. Supplemental Regulations, Article VII. Special Exception Uses, Article VIII. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. Sign Regulations, Article X. A site development plan is required which provides for: HOA S OR 1. Convenient vehicular servicing of the buildings, satisfactory circulation of traffic in the parking areas, and no undue interference with through traffic in gaining ingress and egress from the proposed site. 2. A preliminary plan or engineering report providing for the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers, and water supply prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. 3. Suitable entrance and exit points adjoining public streets highways, or thoroughfares serving the proposed development, which shall be properly illuminated to reduce traffic hazards. 56   4. Garbage and refuse collection facilities shall be the responsibility of apartment management and shall be screened to the full height of such facilities, Section 7.0 RG Garden Home Residential District 7.1 7.2 7d 7.4 Intent To provide areas suitable for the development of residential garden homes along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. Uses Permitted  The following uses shall be permitted in the RG Garden Home District: A. Residential Uses 1. Accessory Structures or Buildings, Subject to Subsection 7.6 (E). 2. Residential Garden Homes B. Institutional Uses 1. Home Instruction 2. Public Utility Services C. Temporary Uses 1. Garage or Yard Sales, Subject to Article VII, Section 9.0. Special Exception Uses The following uses may be permitted subject to a special exception use permit being granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued. See Article VIII, Section 1.0. A. Commercial Uses 1. Home Occupations, Subject to Article VII, Section 9.0, Area and Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: ~~ Minimum Lot Area: 4,000 Square Feet ST  Minimum Lot width. 40 Feet at Building Line Minimum Yard Setbacks: 0 \ox gO Front: i a W\ t 20 Feet #4. ow Ov Rear: 25 Feet «& Side: 0 Fee Oo Undedicateg Road - 45 Feet from the Centerline Corner Lots: Shall hay “Ve feet (25 lopment abutting Single family Tesidentia) Eve Overhangs: Cornices OF €aves May extend Into allowed 'y Properly €X€cuted and T€corded Covenants All such Comices and faves shal] 5 : ; ” is required for all &arden home developments icle Ty, Section 2,2. Requirements for NON-sewered development. In the Event a site js to be developed with septic tan aCilities, the developer/ builder Shall] Produce Engineering Report for the perusal Of the Fultondale anning Commission City of Fultondale Prepared by an State of Alabama €gistered Professional Engineer, This Teport shall Contain all the Te information on € Site, Pertaining to soi) co Study, Proximity ¢ er Percolation € Tequired to Ounty Department Of Health. The City of issue a Permit for th Of parde 58  75 7.6 Section 8.0 8.1 8.2 Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise stipulated, when any lot is to be developed for any use other than single family residential and such lot abuts a lot occupied or zoned for Single family residential development, a minimum buffer yard width of twenty- five feet (25°) shall be required. See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) A. No fence shall be permitted forward of the front corner of the house; other fences shall not exceed seven feet (7°) in height. Due to the zero lot line, easements or comparable access rights shall be . included in the deed so as to permit maintenance on each home. All utilities shall be placed underground, There shall be two (2) paved off-street parking spaces provided for each unit, the depth of which shall be measured from the back of the curb. Twenty percent (20%) of the parking shall be dedicated to landscaping, with adequate shade provided for trees, grass, etc. There shall be no off- ° street parking along existing interior streets. Customary accessory buildings or structures, one (1) per parcel or lot, shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet. Signs Shall be in accordance with Article X, RT Townhouse Residential District Intent To provide areas Suitable for Townhouse Residential Dwellings. Uses Permitted  A. B, Residential Uses 1. Accessory Structures and Buildings provided they are located in the rear yard only. 2. Townhouse Dwellings Institutional Uses 1. Public Utility Service 59  8.3 8.4 Special Exception Uses The following uses may be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A. Commercial Uses 1. Home Occupations, Subject to Article VII, Section 9.0. Area and Dimensional Regulations These regulations shall pertain to areas with adequate sewer facilities. Maximum Density: Ten (10) units per gross tract acre, including common area. Minimum Lot Width: 18 Feet at the building Line. Minimum Yard Setbacks: Front: 35 Feet** Rear: 30 Feet Side: O Feet ** Townhouse dwellings shall be located at least fifteen feet (15°) from the RT District boundary as depicted on the site development plan and twenty feet (20°) from an E-1, R-1 or R-2 Single family residential district. Maximum Height: 35 Feet or 2-1 Stories. Minimum Livable Floor Area: 1. One (1) Story Townhouse - 1,000 square feet 2. One and one-half (1-1/2) or two story townhouse: 500 feet on first floor, total minimum for townhouse - 1,000 square feet. Undedicated Road: 60 Feet from the centerline. Corner Lots: Shall have the same setbacks on both streets or roads. A. Eve Overhangs: Cornices or eaves may extend into adjoining property when allowed by properly executed and recorded covenants between property owners. All such cornices and eaves shall be fire-proof. Note: A Site Development Plan is required for all townhouse developments, as per Article IT, Section 2.2. 60  5 7.6 Section 8.0 8.1 8.2 Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise stipulated, when any lot is to be developed for any use other than single family residential and such lot abuts a lot occupied or zoned for single family residential development, a minimum buffer yard width of twenty- five feet (25°) shall be required. See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) A. No fence shall be permitted forward of the front corner of the house; other fences shall not exceed seven feet (7’) in height. Due to the zero lot line, easements or comparable access rights shall be included in the deed so as to permit maintenance on each home. All utilities shall be placed underground. There shall be two (2) paved off-street parking spaces provided for each unit, the depth of which shall be measured from the back of the curb. Twenty percent (20%) of the parking shall be dedicated to landscaping, with adequate shade provided for trees, grass, etc. There shall be no off- street parking along existing interior streets. Customary accessory buildings or structures, one (1) per parcel or lot, shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet. Signs Shall be in accordance with Article X. RT Townhouse Residential District Intent To provide areas suitable for Townhouse Residential Dwellings. Uses Permitted A. Residential Uses 1. Accessory Structures and Buildings provided they are located in the rear yard only. 2. Townhouse Dwellings Institutional Uses 1. Public Utility Service 59  8.3 8.4 Special Exception Uses The following uses may be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A. Commercial Uses 1. Home Occupations, Subject to Article VIII, Section 9.0. Area and Dimensional Regulations These regulations shall pertain to areas with adequate sewer facilities. Maximum Density: Ten (10) units per gross tract acre, including common area. Minimum Lot Width: 18 Feet at the building Line. Minimum Yard Setbacks: Front: 35 Feet** Rear: 30 Feet Side: 0 Feet ** Townhouse dwellings shall be located at least fifteen feet (15°) from the RT District boundary as depicted on the site development plan and twenty feet (20°) from an E-1, R-1 or R-2 Single family residential district. Maximum Height: 35 Feet or 2-4 Stories. Minimum Livable Floor Area: 1. One (1) Story Townhouse - 1,000 square feet 2. One and one-half (1-1/2) or two story townhouse: 500 feet on first floor, total minimum for townhouse - 1,000 square feet. Undedicated Road: 60 Feet from the centerline. Corner Lots: Shall have the same setbacks on both streets or roads. A. Eve Overhangs: Cornices or eaves may extend into adjoining property when allowed by properly executed and recorded covenants between property owners. All such cornices and eaves shall be fire-proof. Note: A Site Development Plan is required for all townhouse developments, as per Article III, Section 2.2. 60  8.5 8.6 Requirements for non-sewered development: In the event, a site is to be developed with septic tank facilities, the developer/ builder shall produce an Engineering Report, for the persual of the Planning Commission, City of Fultondale, prepared by a State of Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. This report shall contain all the relevant information, on the site, pertaining to the soil conditions, soil capacity, percolation study, proximity to flood plains, etc. The developer/builder shall be required to produce a permit from the Jefferson County Health Department. The City of Fultondale shall issue a permit for the development of townhouses, to the developer/builder in concern, based on the findings and recommendations of the Jefferson County Health Department. In accordance with these recommendations, the density, unit size and other relevant requirements for townhouses shall be provided by the City of Fultondale to the developer/builder. Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this Ordinance, when any lot is to be developed for any use other than Townhouses, and such lot abuts a lot occupied or zoned for any other use, a minimum buffer yard width of twenty-five feet (25 *) shall be provided. See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) A. There shall be two (2) off-street parking spaces provided for each unit, the depth of which shall be measured from back of curb. Twenty percent (20%) of the parking shall be dedicated to landscaping with adequate shade providing trees, grass, etc. There shall be no off-street parking permitted along existing interior streets. ‘ B. An easement appertained across lots shall be provided where a property Owner must cross an adjoining property to reach his or her own property with gates, provided fence extends to the property line. The applicant shall provide for and establish an organization or other legal entity for the ownership and maintenance of any commonly owned areas designated as such on the site development plan. Such organization shall be created by covenants running with the land and such deed restrictions or covenants shall be duly recorded in the Office of the Probate Judge of Jefferson County, Alabama. D. No fences shall be allowed in the front yard. E. Private swimming pools are prohibited in the RT District. F, All utilities shall be placed underground. 61    All lots shall be served by water and sewer. H. Garbage and refuse facilities shall be the responsibility of management and shall be screened to the full height of such facilities. 1. Supplemental Regulations, Article VI. 2. General Regulations, Article V. 3. Definitions, Article IV. 4. Special Exception Uses, Article VII. 5. Administration and Review Procedures, Article II. 6. Off-street Parking and Loading Requirements, Article IX. 7. Sign Regulations, Article X. Section 9.0 MP Manufactured/Mobile Home Park District 9.1 9.2 9.3 Intent To provide areas suitable for Manufactured (Mobile) Home Parks, free from other uses which are incompatible with the character and intent of this district. Uses Permitted Manufactured (Mobile) Homes, Management Offices, Manager’s Residences, Service Facilities such as: Laundromats, Household Storage Buildings, Refuse Collection Areas, and similar common service facilities designed and intended to serve only the residents of the park. Other uses such as Recreational Facilities designed and intended to serve only the residents of the park and their guests, and Residential Accessory uses and Structures may also be permitted. Site Standards A site plan shall be prepared and submitted for each manufactured (mobile) home park, and: A, The minimum site area for a manufactured (mobile) home park shall be twenty (20) acres of land with access to a public street and fronts upon a dedicated street of not less than fifty feet (50°). B. Each manufactured (mobile) home lot shall have a minimum of five thousand (5,000) square feet and have a minimum width of forty-five feet (45”) at the front lot line. Cc, Each manufactured (mobile) home lot shall be set back a minimum of thirty-five feet (35°) from any park boundary line and ten feet (10’) from any other lot line. 62  9.4 9.5 D. Minimum Yard Setbacks shall be: Front Yard: 25 Feet* Rear Yard: 10 Feet Side Yard: 10 Feet * Undedicated Road - 50 feet from the Centerline. E, No manufactured (mobile) home may be located closer than twenty feet (20°) from another such home on an adjacent space. F, The maximum density shall be six (6) manufactured (mobile) homes per _ gross tract acre. If not served by public water and sewer, a lower density may be required by the Jefferson County Health Department. G. Location and type of street lighting as recommended by the Alabama Power Company or comparable engineering data. H. Location and type of fire hydrants to be coordinated with City of Fultondale Fire Department. I. Each manufactured (mobile) home park shall be provided with a park and recreational area having a minimum area of one hundred (100) square feet per manufactured (mobile) home space. Such areas shall be consolidated into usable areas. Installation All manufactured (mobile) homes shall be installed according to all requirements of the Standard Building Code, Appendix H, or as same may be amended. It shall be completely skirted within thirty (30) days from the date the home is moved into the park with a weather resistant material. Skirting shall be adequately vented. Storage Facilities, Accessory Uses and Structures A maximum of one hundred (100) square feet of storage area shall be provided for each space. Alternatively, park management may provide common storage lockers at an equivalent capacity. Permitted accessory structures on manufactured (mobile) home spaces shall include all accessory structures permitted on the lots of single family residences, except for private swimming pools and satellite dish antennas. Such accessory uses shall not be permitted closer than five feet (5’) of the rear and side boundaries of each space. Carports may be permitted within the front yard but shall not be permitted within five feet (5’) of the rear and side boundaries of each space and twenty-five feet (25°) from the front lot line, and in the case of a corner lot, twenty-five feet (25°) from lot lines adjacent to a Street. 63  9.6 9.7 9.8 9.9 9.10 9.11 9.12 Off-street Parking and Streets Two-way private, paved streets maintained by the park management shall be installed to furnish convenient access to all manufactured (mobile) home spaces within the park and such streets shall be in compliance with the street standards of the City of Fultondale. No manufactured (mobile) home shall have its own access into a public street. Dead-end streets shall have turnarounds in conformance with Fultondale Street Standards and each manufactured (mobile) home lot shall have two (2) paved off-street parking spaces provided. The location of all driveways shall be shown on the required site plan and approved by the Fultondale Planning Commission. Service Facilities Common recreational facilities and laundromats shall be provided for the use of park residents only. Refuse collection and disposal shall be the responsibility of the park management and any common refuse collection areas provided shall be screened to the full height of such facilities. Buffer Requirements The proposed development shall be designed as a single architectural scheme with appropriate landscaping and a thirty-five foot (35”) buffer strip shall be retained or installed around the entire park. The buffer strip shall be landscaped and maintained by the park management and no accessory buildings or structures shall be erected or maintained in the required buffer strip. Refer to Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, Section 11.0 through Subsection 11.3. Signs Signs shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article X, Sign Regulations, Section 2.0. Landscaping All required yards should be permanently landscaped with ground cover, trees or shrubs. Deck (Patio) Each manufactured (mobile) home shall be provided with a deck or patio of at least two hundred (200) square feet. Ownership All manufactured (mobile) home lots are to be leased or rented ONLY and are not to be sold individually. 64  9.13 Section 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 Fences Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article VII, Section 4.0. MS Manufactured (Mobile) Home Subdivision Intent To provide areas for Manufactured (Mobile) Home Subdivision development, free from other uses which are incompatible with the character and intent of this district. Uses Permitted Within the MS Manufactured (Mobile) Home Subdivision District, a building or land shall be used only for the following: A. Residential Uses 1, Customary Accessory Structures and Buildings. 2. Detached Single family Manufactured (Mobile) Homes located on owned lots. 3. Non-commercial Greenhouses and Gardens. B. Commercial Uses 1. Home Occupations, Subject to Article VIII, Section 9.0. Area and Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required. Minimum Lot Area: 7,500 Square Feet [15,000 Square Feet if septic tanks and field lines are required] Minimum Lot Width: 50 Feet at the Building Line Minimum Yard Setbacks: Front: 35 Feet* Rear: 35 Feet Side: 8 Feet - *Undedicated Road: Sixty feet (60°) from centerline. Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on both streets or roads. 65  10.4 10.5 10.6 Manufactured (Mobile) Home Standards A. The minimum manufactured (mobile) home floor area shall be five hundred (500) square feet. Each manufactured (mobile) home shall be provided with two (2) off-street parking spaces, with all streets and parking spaces in complete conformance with the City of Fultondale Subdivision Regulations relative to street standards and design. All manufactured (mobile) homes shall be installed according to all applicable requirements of the Standard Building Code, Appendix H or as same may be amended and shall be completely skirted within thirty (30) days from the date the home is moved on the lot with weather resistant material. Skirting shall be adequately vented. Procedure For Plat Approval Layout plans for all manufactured (mobile) home subdivisions shall be prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer and submitted to the Fultondale Planning Commission for review and approval. This site plan shall include the following: A, Area and dimensions of the site. B. Number of lots, dimensions and layout of all lots. C. Location, size and layout of all utilities and streets. D. Assessment of drainage conditions by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer, including all proposed measures needed to rectify problems where they exist. E. Street plan, including all off-street parking. F, Assessment of traffic conditions, including all proposed measures needed to rectify problems, where they exist. G. Location of all fire hydrants. H. Location and type of all street lighting. Additional Regulations A, B. All manufactured (mobile) homes shall be individually owned. The subdivision shall be in accordance with all applicable sections of the City of Fultondale Subdivision Regulations. 66  C. All access points shall be controlled through the site review of plans submitted to the Fultondale Planning Commission on each manufactured (mobile) home subdivision plan. D. The subdivision shall be served by water, sanitary facilities and by adequate drainage facilities and such plans shall be submitted to both the City Engineer and City Building Inspector, as well as to the City of Fultondale Planning Commission for review. Section 11.0 O-1 Office Building District 11.1 11.2 11.3 Intent To provide areas suitable for office and professional buildings, along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are deemed compatible with the professional office environment. Uses Permitted The following uses shall be permitted in the O-1 Office Building District. Similar uses to those listed below may also be permitted Subject to Article Il, Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10, Interpretation Of Uses, and Subsection 2.11, Unclassified Uses. A. Commercial Uses . Bank or Financial Services . Business or Professional Offices* Business Support Services . Commercial Parking . Commercial Schools . Personal Services NNR WN rE B. Institutional Uses. 1. Public Utility Services Office Buildings in excess of 2,500 square feet of floor space may use up to ten percent (10%) of such space for commercial and personal service oriented activities. Special Exception Uses The following uses may be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. 67  Commercial Uses SINAN PWN . Broadcast Studios . Clinics . Day Care Centers . Funeral Homes . Restaurants, Fast Food, See Article VII, Section 5.0. . Restaurants, Standard . Studios Institutional Uses CON NMNA WN . Parks . Places of Worship . Public Buildings, Subject to Section 2.0, Subsection 2.5. . Public Utility Facilities . School - Nursing Care Facility, See Article VIII, Section 7.0. Domiciliary Care Facility School 11.4 Area and Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: Minimum Yard Setbacks: Front: 35 Feet Rear: 35 Feet* Side: 35 Feet** Maximum Building Height: 45 Feet or 4 Stories Corner Lots: Shall have the same setbacks on both streets and roads. * hE Rear Yard may be reduced to fifteen feet (15’) if the adjoining property is zoned commercial or light industrial. If the adjoining property is zoned commercial or light industrial, interior side yard setbacks may be reduced to zero feet (0’), provided that all portions of the side of the structure are enclosed with an un-perforated fire- wall of four (4) hour fire construction. In addition, if the-structure is not built to the side lot line, a minimum setback of at least ten feet (10’) shall be maintained. 68    11.5 11.6 Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise stipulated elsewhere in this Ordinance, when any lot is to be developed for any use permitted in this district and such use abuts a lot occupied or zoned for single family residential use, a minimum buffer yard width of twenty-five feet (25°) shall be provided. See Article VI, Supplemental Regulations, 13.0 through 13.3. Additional Regulations H Onn oay> Administration and Review Procedures, Article III. Definitions, Article IV. General Regulations, Article V. Supplemental Regulations, Article VII. Special Exception Uses, Article VIII. Off-street Parking and Loading Requirements, Article IX. Sign Regulations, Article X. Each structure located in the O-1 Office Building District shall have a service yard or yards, adequate for the handling of waste and garbage and the loading and unloading of vehicles. Such service yard shall be paved, have access to a public street or alley, be located to the rear or side of the primary structure and be enclosed on three sides with a permanent wall or fence at least six feet (6’) in height and adequate in height to conceal the service yard from visibility. No exterior lighting fixture, including lighting for parking areas, walkways, general illumination or any other purposes except legal signs shall exceed twenty-five feet (25°) in height measured from the ground and be located and erected in such a manner as to direct the beam of light away from nearby residential areas. A Site Development Plan is required which provides for: ls Convenient vehicular servicing of the buildings, satisfactory circulation of traffic in the parking areas, as well as in adjacent areas. There should be no undue interference with through traffic in gaining ingress and egress from the proposed site. 2. A preliminary plan or engineering report providing for the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. 3. Suitable entrance and exit points adjoining public Streets, highways, or thoroughfares serving the proposed development. 4. The location, size, number and character of all exterior signs 69    and lighting. Be The type and location of all buffers to be employed. Section 12.0 B-1 Neighborhood Business District 12.1 12.2 12.3 Intent To establish and preserve areas for those commercial uses which are especially useful in close proximity to residential areas, along with selected institutional uses, while minimizing the possible undesirable impact of such uses on the neighborhoods they serve. Uses Permitted The following uses shall be permitted in the B-1 Neighborhood Business District. Similar uses to those listed below may also be permitted subject to Article II, Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10, Interpretation of Uses, and Subsection 2.11, Unclassified Uses. A. Commercial Uses 1. Banks or Financial Services 2. Business or Professional Offices 3. Business Support Services 4, Car Washes 5. Convenience Stores 6. Clinics 7. Day Care Centers 8. General Retail (Enclosed) 9. Personal Services 10. Studios B. Institutional Uses 1. Community Centers 2. Public Utility Services Special Exception Uses The following uses may be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A. Commercial Uses 70  Section 13.0 B-2 General Business District 13.1 13.2 Intent To establish and preserve a retail business district convenient to the public which is attractive for a wide range of retail and service uses usually found along major streets and thoroughfares and downtown areas. Uses Permitted The following uses shall be permitted in the B-2 General Business District. Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted subject to Article I, Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.12, Interpretation Of Uses, and Subsection 2.11, Unclassified Uses. A. Commercial Uses Bakeries (Minor) Business or Professional Offices Banks or Financial Services Business Support Service Clinics Commercial Parking Commercial Schools Convenience Stores . Day Care Centers 10. Entertainment (Indoor) 11. General Retail Businesses (Enclosed) 12. General Retail Businesses (Unenclosed) 13. Home Improvement Centers 14. Medical Support Services 15. Personal Services 16. Printing Establishment (Minor) 17. Restaurants (Standard) 18. Studios 19. Vehicle Repair (Minor, See Definition Section) 20. Vehicle Sales or Rentals CONAAAYNE B. Institutional Uses 1. Clubs 2. Community Centers or Civic Centers 3. Community Service Clubs 4. Public Utility Services 73    13.3 13.4 Special Exception Uses The following uses may be permitted subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A, Commercial Uses 10. 11, 12. A ele Ne Campgrounds Car Washes Funeral Homes Garden Centers or Nurseries Gasoline Service Stations, Subject to Article VIII, Section 4.0. Hotels and Motels Liquor Lounges Major Vehicle Repair Services as defined in Article IV, Definitions. Mini-warehouses, Subject to Article VIII, Section 10.0. Restaurants (Fast Food, Subject to Article VIII, Section 5.0. Shopping Centers, Subject to Article VIII, Section 3.0. Truck Stops B. Institutional Uses SP eS A eS ee — Country Clubs Hospitals Parks Places of Worship Public Assembly Centers Public Buildings, Subject to Article VI, Section 2.0, Subsection 2.5. Public Utility Facilities Schools Nursing Care Facility, See Section VIII, Section 7.0. . Domiciliary Care Facility C. Temporary Uses 1, Seasonal Sales, Subject to Article IV, subsection 5.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall apply: ~ Minimum Lot Size: None specified, although the lot size shall be adequate to provide for the required parking, buffers, storage and servicing of the buildings. 74  Minimum Lot Width: None specified, although it is the intent of this Ordinance that lots be of sufficient width to allow for the proposed use, along with adequate space for parking, buffers, storage and the servicing of the building(s). Minimum Yard Setbacks: Front: 35 feet Rear: 35 feet * Side: 35 feet ** Maximum Height: Forty-five feet (45”) or four (4) stories Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on both streets or roads. * Rear yard may be reduced to fifteen feet (15°) if the adjoining rear property is zoned commercial or light industrial. ee If adjoining property is zoned commercial or light industrial, interior side yard setback may be reduced to zero feet (0°), provided that all portions of the side of the structure is enclosed with an un-pierced fire-wall of four (4) hour fire construction. In addition, if the structure is not built to the side lot line, a minimum setback of at least fifteen feet (15’) shall be maintained. 13.5 Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise stipulated, when any use allowed in this district is located adjacent to any occupied residential lot or a lot that is zoned residential, such use shall provide a minimum buffer yard width of twenty-five feet (25°). See Article VU, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. 13.6 Additional Regulations (When Applicable) A. Administration and Review Procedures, Article III. B. Definitions, Article IV. C. General Regulations, Article V. D. Supplemental Regulations, Article VII. E. Special Exception Uses, Article VIII. F, Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. G. Sign Regulations, Article X. H. Each structure located in the B-2 General Business District shall have a service yard or yards adequate for the handling of waste and garbage and the loading and unloading of vehicles. Such service yard shall be paved, have access to a public street or alley, be located to the rear or side of the primary structure(s) and be enclosed on three sides with a wall or fence, at least six feet (6°) in height and adequate to conceal 75   Section 14.0 14.1 14.2 the service yard from public view. I. No exterior lighting fixture, including lighting for parking areas, walkways, general illumination or any other purposes except legal signs shall exceed twenty-five feet (25°) in height measured from the ground and shall be located and constructed in such a manner so as to direct the beam of light away from any adjacent areas. M-1 Light Industrial District Intent This district consists of areas where limited industrial uses are permitted. The district encourages employment centers with a low degree of environmental impact. Principal industrial activities include: light manufacturing, industrial services, warehousing, wholesaling, distribution services, and other limited impact activities. The M-1 District also allows for selected commercial and institutional uses which are supportive of industrial employment centers. Uses Permitted  The following uses shall be permitted in the M-1 Light Industrial District. Similar uses may also be permitted subject to Article II, Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10, Interpretation of Uses, and Unclassified Uses, Subsection 2.11. A. Industrial Uses Construction Services Industrial Parks, Subject to Article VII, Section 12.0. Maintenance Services Manufacturing (Light) Research Laboratories Truck Terminals - Vehicle and Equipment Sales (Major) po ee Pe Se B. Commercial Uses Animal Hospitals Bakeries (Major) Business or Professional Offices Business Support Services = Garage, Repair Gasoline Service Stations, Subject to Article VII, Section 4.0. Home Improvement Centers Mini-warehouses, Subject to Article VIII, Section 10.0. PO eh Se ee be 76  14.3 14.4 9. Printing Establishment (Major) 10. Vehicle Repair, (Minor and Major) Cc. Institutional Uses 1, Public Utility Services D. Agricultural Uses L. Farm Support Businesses Special Exception Uses The following uses may be permitted subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 1.2. A, Commercial Uses 4, 1. Airports, including heliports 2. 3. Commercial Transmission Towers, Subject to Article VIO, Section Animal Kennels 13.0. Kennels B. Institutional Uses Sa Po pe Animal Shelters Cemeteries Military Installations Parks Pet Cemeteries Public Buildings, Subject to Article VI, Subsection 2.5. Public Utility Facilities Area and Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: Minimum Lot Size: None specified, although it is the intent of this Ordinance that lots be of sufficient size to accommodate the proposed use, along with adequate space for parking, loading and unloading of vehicles, buffers, storage and servicing of the building(s). 77   14.5 14.6 Minimum Lot Width: None specified; although, it is the intent of this Ordinance that lots be of sufficient width to allow the proposed use and adequate space for parking, buffers, storage and servicing of the building(s). Minimum Yard Setbacks: Front: 35 feet Rear: 35 feet * Side: 35 feet ** Maximum Building Height: 45 feet Corner Lots: Same setbacks on streets, roads and highways; from an un- dedicated road, it shall be one hundred feet (100’) from the centerline. * ** Rear Yard may be reduced to fifteen feet (15°) if the adjoining property is zoned industrial. If the adjoining property is zoned industrial, interior side yard setbacks may be reduced to zero feet (0’); provided that all portions of the side of the structure are enclosed with an un-pierced fire-wall of four (4) hour construction. In addition, if the structure is not built to the side lot line, a minimum setback of at least fifteen feet (15°) shall be maintained. Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise stipulated, when any use permitted in this district is located adjacent to any occupied residential or commercial lot or a lot that is zoned residential or commercial, said use shall provide a minimum buffer yard width of forty feet (40°). See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) FOO RD HO Administration and Review Procedures, Article II. Definitions, Article IV. General Regulations, Article V. Supplemental Regulations, Article VII. Special Exception Uses, Article VII. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. Sign Regulations, Article X. Any outdoor storage area shall be screened to a height which is adequate to conceal such area from public view from off the premises. 78  Section 15.0 15.1 15.2 15.3 I. Any garbage/ refuse service areas shall be limited to the rear of the principal building or complex it serves to a height which is adequate to conceal such facilities from public view from off the premises. M-2 Heavy Industrial District Intent To provide suitable areas where heavy industrial uses are permitted. This district encourages employment centers where a potentially high degree of environmental impact uses can be located, including general and heavy manufacturing and industry. Uses Permitted  The following uses shall be permitted in the M-2 Heavy Industrial District. Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted Subject to Article I, Administration and Review Procedures, Subsection 2.10, Interpretation of Uses, and Subsection 2.11, Unclassified Uses. A. Industrial Uses Heavy Industry Industrial Parks, Subject to Article VIII, Section 12.0. Manufacturing (General) Manufacturing (Light) Warehousing, Wholesaling and Distribution. te Pe B. Institutional Uses 1. Public Utility Services Special Exception Uses The following uses may be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City. See Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, Section 1.0 and Subsections 1.1 and 12. A. Industrial Uses 1. Recycling Plants 2. Salvage Yards or Junk Yards # 3. Sanitary Landfills B. Commercial Uses i   15.4 15.5 15.6 Cc, 1. Animal Hospitals 2. Kennels 3. Transmission Towers, Subject to Article VIII, Section 13.0. Institutional Uses 1. Animal Shelters 2. Public Utility Facilities Area and Dimensional Regulations Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: : Minimum Lot Size: The same as in District M-1. Minimum Lot Width: The same as in District M-1. Minimum Yard Setbacks: The same as in District M-1. Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on both streets, roads or highways. Buffer Requirements Unless otherwise stipulated, when any use allowed in this district is located adjacent to any occupied residential or commercial lot or a lot that is zoned residential or commercial, said use shall provide a minimum buffer yard width of fifty feet (50°). See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, Subsections 13.0 through 13.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) ZH QFASAn> Administration and Review Procedures, Article II. Definitions, Article IV. General Regulations, Article V. Supplemental Regulations, Article VII. Special Exception Uses, Article VIII. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. Sign Regulations, Article X. Any outdoor storage areas shall be screened to a height which is adequate to conceal such storage areas from public view from off the premises. Any garbage/ refuse service area shall be limited to the rear of the principal building or complex it serves and screened to a height which is adequate to conceal such facilities from public view from off the premises. 80  Section 16.0 M-3-S Strip Mining District 16.1 16.2 16.3 Intent To provide standards to regulate strip mining operations in selected areas and to provide safeguards for both adjacent properties and the environment. This is the only district in the City of Fultondale in which strip mining shall be permitted, with the exception of any operations licensed by the State of Alabama and/or the City of Fultondale actively engaged in strip-mining at the time of the adoption of this Ordinance. Uses Permitted A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes: A. Extraction of minerals - coal, ore, etc.- by the surface mining method. B. The right to: erect, maintain, alter, enlarge, use and operate: a structure, building, machinery, housing, road, railroad, transmission lines, right-of- way and other facilities accessory to strip mining. Area and Dimensional Regulations In the above permitted uses, the area and dimensional regulations set forth in the following section shall be observed: A. The extraction of minerals (coal, ore, etc.) by the surface mining method will not be permitted within two hundred feet (200°) of any property line or public road right-of-way within this zoning district, with exception to the following: 1, The foregoing two hundred feet (200°) property line setback | requirement may be reduced in whole or in part with the written consent of the owner(s) of the adjacent property and the approval of the Fultondale Planning Commission. Zz: The foregoing 200-foot public road right-of-way setback requirement may be reduced in whole or in part with the written consent of the Fultondale City Council. B. The right to: erect, maintain, alter, use and operate a structure, building, machinery, housing, road, railroad, transmission lines, right-of-way and other facilities accessory to strip mining will not be permitted within fifty feet (50°) of any property line or public road right-of-way line within this zoning district, except where mine access roads or haulage roads join such 81  16.4 Section 17.0 17.1 17.2 17.3 right-of-way line and except that the Planning Commission or governmental body having jurisdiction over such roads may permit such roads to be relocated or the area affected to lie within fifty feet (50°) of such road. Cc. Exception to the setback requirement stated in A, 1 and 2 above will be made where the adjoining property is also zoned M-3-S, thereby eliminating the need for setback lines. Additional Requirements Prior to the use of the land for the above described purposes, the applicant shall submit a plan showing an informal sketch as to the locations of the coal seam, | estimated number of tons, approximate time required to strip and reclaim a general expression of the subsequent use of the property. In addition, all such firms, persons, corporations and other entities shall be subject to any and all State and Federal Laws pertaining to regulation of strip mining operations. Upon completion of mining and reclamation, property within this district shall then revert back to its previous zoning district designation or shall be rezoned within a period of one (1) year. All strip mining activities must be in complete conformity and in full compliance with all State and Federal Laws pertaining to such operations, including, but not limited to those of the Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) requirements. MR Municipal Reserve District Intent This District serves as an interim zone for newly annexed areas of the municipality. The MR District seeks to protect newly annexed property prior to the time comprehensive zoning can be applied to the area. Zoning Of Annexed Area On the effective date of annexation, all newly annexed property shall be zoned MR Municipal Reserve District. Rezoning From The MR District As soon as practicable following annexation, the Fultondale Planning Commission shall initiate a petition to rezone property annexed into the City from the MR District to any other district contained within this Ordinance. In-determining the most appropriate zone or zones, the Planning Commission shall duly consider the following items, among others: 82   ARTICLE Vi SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS Section 1.0 Area Modification For Lots Of Record The Fultondale Zoning Board of Adjustment shall approve all proposed development involving non-conforming lots of record. See Article V, General Regulations, Section 6.0 and Subsection 6.1. Section 2.0 General Yard Requirements Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed by any structure or part thereof, and unoccupied for Storage, servicing or similar uses, except as provided for herein. More than one (1) multiple dwelling, office, institutional, industrial or public building may be located upon a lot or tract of land, but such dwellings shall not encroach upon the front, side or rear yards required by the district regulations. 2.1 Front Yard Modifications  A. Where forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage on the same side of the street between two (2) intersecting streets is presently developed or may hereafter be developed with buildings that have [with a variation of five feet (5°) or less] a front yard greater or lesser in depth than herein required, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the street than the average front yard so established by the existing dwelling. B, Where forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage on one (1) side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets is presently developed or may hereafter be developed with buildings that do not have a front yard as described below. The following shall apply: I. Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is within one hundred feet (100’) of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard shall be a line drawn between the closest front corners of the adjacent buildings; or, Di Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is within one hundred feet (100’) of an existing building on one (1) side only, such building may be erected as close tothe street as the existing building. C. Through lots shall provide the required front yard on both sides. D. Corner lots shall provide a front yard on each street. 2.2 Rear Yard Modifications Where a lot abuts an alley, one-half (1/2) of the alley width may be considered as part of the required rear yard. Section 3.0 Height Modifications Any limitation on the number of stories shall not apply to buildings used exclusively for Storage purposes, provided such buildings do not exceed the height in feet permitted in the district in which located. Chimneys, cooling towers, elevators, bulkheads, fire towers, gas tanks, steeples, penthouses, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers and spires, wireless, television or radio towers, or necessary mechanical appurtenances, where permitted, may be erected to any height not in conflict with existing or hereafter adopted ordinances of the City of Fultondale, except that where permitted in connection with residential uses, such structures shall be limited to a height of twenty-five feet (25’) above the average height of structures permitted in that district. Section 4.0 Fences and Walls No fence shall be allowed beyond the front yard set-back line in any single family residential district. . The height requirements in any single-family residential zone shall be as follows: fences constructed on a side or rear lot line or behind the required front yard as set forth elsewhere in these regulations shall not exceed a height of six and one-half feet (6’-6”) as measured from the topmost point of the fence to the ground or surface along the center line of the fence. The following types of fences are permitted in Residential Zone Districts: masonry walls, ornamental (iron) woven wire (chain link), wood or other man-made materials and hedges. The following type of fences are Prohibited: any fence carrying electric current, any fence that utilizes spikes, nails, barb wire or other pointed materials in its construction. However, when warranted, those fence types listed as prohibited above may be permitted in the A-1 Agricultural, M-1 Light Industrial and M-2 Heavy Industrial Districts. On any corner lots, no fence of any material shall be permitted to encroach a required thirty-five foot (35°) building line setback that would hinder site distances for motorists or pedestrians. No fence, hedge or any type of planting shall be placed or constructed in any location that would hinder access to fire hydrants, including ornamental or split-rail fences. The following exceptions should be noted relative to fences, walls and-hedges: fences used for guard railing, around depressed ramps, tops of retaining walls along driveways and adjacent to residential sidewalks, not to exceed forty-two inches (42”) in height. (See Illustration overleaf.) 85  2.2. Rear Yard Modifications “at tard Modifications Where a lot abuts an alley, one-half (1/2) of the alley width may be considered as part of the required rear yard. Section 3.0 Height Modifications Any limitation on the number of stories shall not apply to buildings used exclusively for storage purposes, Provided such buildings do not exceed the height in feet Permitted in the district in which located. Section 4.0 Fences and Walls No fence shall be allowed beyond the front yard set-back line in any single family residential district. fence that utilizes spikes, nails, barb wire or other pointed materials in its construction. However, when watranted,- those fence types listed as prohibited above may be permitted in the A-1 Agricultural, M-1 Light Industrial and M-2 Heavy Industrial Districts, The following €xceptions should be noted relative to fences, walls and-hedges: fences used for guard railing, around depressed ramps, tops of retaining walls along driveways and adjacent to residential Sidewalks, not to exceed forty-two inches (42”) in height. (See 85    STREET                         715" 700 175° FRONT YARD FRONT YARD FRONT YARD 35" BUILDING LINE _ m mm I V7 GZ SIDE | SIDE SIDE REAR . oe YARD |YARD Mi4 YARD | yapp a N = | ! L SIDE 2 3 YARD Q | S ; REAR YARD REAR YARD I & i sive YARD Ry} ot rie | by Ry 8 Hs [ft ls ta = 7 =e _— : Y RS Yi . | © CL] ER ana bane Vij fi Yi | a | YY , oe eS) 2 I d _“ Q Hl I Me a Hl ia = E : FRONT YARD & YARD s ii FRONT & i YARD 2 ee ee J 35° |BUILDING LINE FRONT YARD 115’ 700’ IS” | | TYPICAL CONFIGURATIONS 4 FENCES AND WALLS — For non-residential Districts, all fence construction shall be subject to site plan approval with no height or setback restriction(s) except those deemed necessary and reasonable by the Planning Commission unless otherwise stipulated elsewhere in this Ordinance. See Special Exception Uses. Section 5.0 Porches, Terraces, Balconies, Cornices, and Eaves Sills or ornamental features of a structure may project into any yard not to exceed six inches (6%). 86  Cornices or eaves may project into any required yard not to exceed twenty-four inches (24). Terraces, unenclosed porches, underground fallout shelters or ornamental features (which are constructed as part of a single-family or two-family dwelling) may project into a required yard, provided such projections be not closer than thirty feet (30°) from the front lot line, and twenty-five feet (25°) from the back lot line. Said terraces, porches, shelters and ornamental features (when constructed as part of a multifamily dwelling) may exceed a maximum of five feet (5”) into the side yards. In single-family and two-family residential zones, an unenclosed balcony, deck, porch or fire escape may project into a required rear yard, provided such structures be located not | closer than twenty-five feet (25°) from the rear property line and ten feet (10°) from either side property line. In multifamily residential zones, an unenclosed balcony, porch, deck or fire escape may project into a required rear yard for a distance not to exceed twelve feet (12°), and may project into a required side yard for a distance not to exceed eight feet (8°); but, in no instances, shall said structures be located closer than twenty-five feet (25°) from any property line in which a buffer is required as a means of separating incompatible land uses. Section 6.0 Accessory Buildings and Structures Non-residential accessory buildings or structures up to twelve feet (12°) in height shall be permitted within five feet (5’) of any side or rear property line, but shall not occupy any portion of the front yard. Accessory buildings above twelve feet (12°) in height shall be set back one (1) additional foot for each four feet (4’) in height above twelve feet (12°) up to the district maximum building height limitation of the district in which located. Non-residential accessory buildings shall be constructed of materials which are compatible with other buildings in the district in which located in order to insure that the aesthetic value and appearance of the neighborhood is retained. Residential accessory buildings, attached and detached Carports, and garages on residential lots shall meet the following requirements: : ° 1. The maximum floor area shall be twenty-five percent (25 %) of the habitable floor area of the principal building. 2, The maximum height shall be eighteen feet (18°) and in no case will it exceed the principal building height. 3. Such structures and additions shall be subject to the front yard requirements in that respective district. 4. Detached accessory structures shall be constructed in the rear yard but shall be located no closer than five feet (5 “) from the property line. 87  5. Accessory structures shall be constructed of materials which are compatible with other buildings in the district in which located in order to insure that the aesthetic value and appearance of the neighborhood is retained. 6. Accessory structures shall not be built prior to construction of the primary Structure, nor shall such be used for non-residential purposes which are not normally incidental to residential use. 1. All electrical power service to accessory buildings on residential lots shall originate from the main power service at the main building and not a separate metered service. 8. Attached accessory buildings and structures, such as, carports and garages may be built in the side yard but must conform with the side setback requirements for the district in which such is located. Section 7.0 Satellite Dish Antennas Satellite dish antennas and other ground mounted antennas shall not be permitted in the front yard. Setbacks shall be from all property lines a distance equal to the height of the antenna. The setback of a satellite dish shall be equal to the minimum distance measured from the closest edge of the dish to the property line. Satellite dishes are subject to the district maximum building height limitations. Those satellite dish antennas shall be neutral in color and, to the greatest extent possible, compatible with the appearance and character of the neighborhood in which located. In case the required placement prevents satisfactory reception or other problems of a unique nature, such shall be referred to the Zoning Board of Adjustment for resolution of the problem(s). Section 8.0 Temporary Structures and Building Material Storage Temporary buildings may be permitted for Storage of materials connected with construction projects and such buildings may also be permitted as temporary offices until such time as the construction projects are completed and permanent buildings are ready for habitation. However, no such buildings or structures shall be permitted until appropriate building permits have been approved by the Building Inspector and issued by the City Clerk. Section 9.0 Garage or Yard Sales Garage or yard sales on the same lot shall not be conducted for more than three (3) days (whether consecutive or not) during any 90 day period. = All posters and/or signs, display tables, stands, racks, etc., shall be removed immediately after such sale by the person or persons conducting the garage or yard sale and such items shall be stored inside an enclosed building or screened from public view. 88   Section 10.0 Private Swimming Pools Where permitted, private swimming pools shall comply with the following requirements: Permanent swimming pools which are wholly or partially above ground level shall be located in the rear yard of a single or two-family residential district no closer than twenty-five feet (25”) from any property line. No mechanical appurtenance shall be located within ten feet (10°) of any property line. Private Swimming Pools constructed below grade level shall be: l, Located, including mechanical appurtenances, no closer than ten feet (10°) from any property line. Enclosed at the time of construction by a fence of not less than five feet (5°) in height (measured from ground level to the highest point on the fence). Fences and gates shall be constructed of such materials so as to prevent unauthorized entry by persons or household pets. Moreover, gates shall be provided with permanent self-latching devices which shall be locked at all times when the pool is not in use. Above-ground pools shall be subject to the requirements of the Standard Swimming Pool Code, 1991 Edition, and any future amendments thereto. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be constructed to direct the beam of light below the horizontal plane of the fixture, reflecting away from any adjacent property. Said fixtures may not extend higher than twenty-five feet (25°) in height. Swimming pools for multifamily and commercial uses shall meet minimum standards deemed appropriate by the Building Inspection Department upon review of each specific proposal. Section 11.0 Farms The minimum land area shall be five (5) acres. The following farming activities shall be permitted: I Bs Forage and Sod Crops Grain and Seed Crops Dairy Animals and Products ~ Livestock, such as: beef cattle, swine, sheep, goats, or any similar livestock, including the breeding and raising of such animals but, excluding commercial meat processing operations. 89  10. 11. 12. Poultry, including egg production but excluding commercial poultry processing operations. Nursery operations involving the raising of plants, shrubs and trees for sale and transplantation, including greenhouses and the incidental sale of items customarily associated with a nursery operation. Bees and Apiary Products Fisheries, excluding commercial fish processing operations. Fruit and Vegetables of all kinds, including the growing and harvesting of such fruit and vegetables, but excluding commercial food processing operations. In the A-1 Agriculture Zone, the minimum setback of livestock barns and commercial chicken (fowl) houses from adjoining property lines shall be one hundred feet (100’); and from highway (road) right-of-way lines shall be three hundred feet (300), provided, however, that no livestock barn or chicken houses shall be built closer than three hundred feet (300°) to the nearest then existing residence other than that of the owner. Swine, (hogs) to be housed, fed and watered not nearer than one hundred feet (100°) to any adjoining property line or within three hundred feet (300’) of any street or road right-of-way. Temporary sawmills and chippers (used in connection with timber cutting operations) shall be set back at least two hundred feet (200’) from any lot line. Non-farm related single family residences and subdivisions are permitted, provided that the recording of lots in this district contains a minimum of half (A) an acre and is in complete conformance with the City subdivision regulations. Applicants should also be apprised of the fact that a two (2) acre minimum lot is tequired for a hobby farm, in case the intent is to utilize the lot for that purpose. A booth or stall (farm stand) from which farm produce grown on the same premises and sold to the general public shall be permitted subject to the following: 1; 2. Sales areas shall be set back from all lot lines so as to meet the district yard requirements. Sales areas shall not occupy any part of a required off-street parking/loading area. Incidental structures and activities commonly associated with a farm may include: barns, silos, animal pens, loading and unloading platforms or chutes and other accessory uses. ~r 90  Section 12.0 Regulations Pertaining to Manufactured (Mobile) Homes Where permitted, Manufactured (Mobile) Homes shall comply with the following requirements: All Manufactured (Mobile) Homes are prohibited in all zone districts of the City except in Districts R-3-A and R-3-B; however, manufactured (mobile) homes shall be allowed in the AG Agricultural District upon compliance with the following requirements: 1. The Manufactured (Mobile) Home, as located on the proposed site, shall be at least seventy-five feet (75°) from the nearest residential structure (excluding | another such home) located on the same property under separate ownership. Water and sanitary facilities must be approved by the City of Fultondale, as well as the Jefferson County Health Department. Site: Requirements: Minimum Lot Width at Front Setback Line: 100 Feet Minimum Lot Area: 15,000 Sq. Ft. Yard Requirements: Front: 35 Feet un-dedicated street 60 feet from centerline Side: 15 Feet Rear: 35 Feet Parcel or parcels and adjacent property, under the same ownership, will allow the following: One (1) home: . 15,000 sq. ft. Two (2) homes: One (1) acre minimum Only two additional homes, three including the principal structure, shall be permitted in any parcel in this district without having to subdivide the parcel in concern. This use will further require the approval of contiguous property owners’ to site such additional homes. All the lots that are contiguous to the lot/ property in question shall not be under the ownership of the same individual. ~~ 91  Section 13.0 Buffers 13.1 13.2 Definition A buffer is herein defined as a strip of land that is retained, planted or constructed for the purpose of providing a means of: Screening or separating incompatible land uses, promoting visual harmony, reducing noise, diverting emissions, restricting passage and enhancing the natural environment - thereby providing for a compatible mix of otherwise conflicting uses. A buffer may consist of the following: A. A natural barrier such as existing or planted trees or shrubs, or a | combination of trees, shrubs or vegetation. Any combination of evergreen trees or other deciduous trees (hardwoods) or shrubs are acceptable as long as the desired visual barrier will be uniformly dense at the minimum height required. B. A solid opaque fence, a brick or masonry wall or an earth berm. General Requirements for Buffers/Screening Specifications for buffers shall be determined by the Planning Commission where otherwise specified during its review of site development plans. Ata minimum, buffers shall meet the following criteria: (a) If a natural barrier is specified in the buffer strip, such barrier shall be a planting strip so planted that within one full growing season after installation, said planting strip shall provide a visually impervious barrier uniformly dense at all heights from the ground, and a minimum of four feet (4”) tall throughout the entire length of the planting strip. The entire surface area of the buffer shall be planted with trees and/or shrubs. Within three (3) full growing seasons after installation, said planting strip shall have reached a minimum height of six feet (6’) or greater. A. If man-made screening methods are specified, the following shall apply: 1. Screening materials shall be continuously maintained, present an attractive exterior appearance and be of durable construction. 2s Unless otherwise noted, acceptable Screening materials include: wood stockade fences, decorative masonry walls, brick walls and earth berms. Screening walls or fences shall be a minimum of six feet (6’) in height (or as modified by the Planning Commission), but not exceeding three feet (3) in height within any required front yard. a Location of screening shall not obstruct the visibility of traffic circulation. 92  B. Buffers shall be of sufficient: width, height, opacity and density to eliminate the adverse impact on adjacent properties. 13.3. Modification or Waiver The screening and planting requirements of this Section shall be applied equally to similarly classified and situated properties, but may be modified or waived altogether in certain cases where a building site is subject to any of the following circumstances as determined by the Planning Commission: A. Where natural vegetation (trees and/or shrubs) exist on a piece of property, | when application is made for a building permit, a strip of natural vegetation shall be left undisturbed until the Building Inspector has inspected such area and evaluated it with regard to the width requirements set forth in the Zoning Ordinance for that specific use and zone, as well as suitability. The Building Inspector may require that the developer retain a portion of the natural vegetation as a greenbelt/buffer, where such already exists, rather than require a man-made planting strip or other method of screening. However, such greenbelt/buffer must be sufficient in both height and/or density to achieve the desired purpose as a natural barrier. Where impending development of adjacent property would make these standards unreasonable or impractical. Where, after inspection by the Building Inspector, it is found that two (2) different and incompatible zone districts abut each other but are already separated by a street or alley, or where the view from the adjoining district is blocked by a change in grade or other natural or man-made feature. Where a greenbelt or planting strip cannot, in the professional opinion of an expert, be expected to thrive due to poor soil conditions, intense shade or similar conditions. Fencing, where installed, shall be constructed prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in good growing condition by the party or parties required to provide such plantings and, when necessary, replaced with new growth. All fencing shall be permanently maintained in good condition and, whenever necessary, repaired or replaced by the party or parties required to provide such fence. In special cases where the side and/or rear yards may be inadequate to meet the requirements for the buffer strip, the Planning Commission shall determine, based upon the site plan review or other pertinent information requested, an alternative method of screening or separation. 93  Section 1.0 Generally ARTICLE VOI SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES Certain land use activities are identified for special treatment. The nature of these uses is such that, when properly regulated, they are appropriate in several zone districts. In order to bring about proper integration of these uses into the City’s land use pattern, a special set of criteria or standards will tend to maintain compatibility with adjoining land uses. It is intended that the Fultondale Zoning Board of Adjustment will review all proposals for special exception uses for compliance with the appropriate provisions for these special exception uses contained in this Article before an approval is granted and a building permit is issued. 1.1 Special Exception Procedures A. All uses listed as permitted by special exception shall require the review and approval of an application to the Zoning Board of Adjustment. An application for a special use shall be first filed with the Building Inspector at least twenty-one (21) days before the scheduled public hearing date by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. The application shall be filed by the property owner (or authorized agent of the property owner) on a form made available by the Building Inspector. Such form shall be completed by the applicant (or agent of the applicant) and include the following information and materials: 1. Name, signature and address of the property owner and agent of property owner, if any. Address of the property under consideration. Existing zoning and land use of the property under consideration. Proposed use by Special Exception. A vicinity map showing the exact location of the property. A plot plan, where deemed applicable, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries and the proposed development layout. The applicant or agent must, at the time application is made, provide the Building Inspector with the names and addresses of adjacent property owners, as well as those property owners within five hundred feet (500’) of the subject property. A seventy-five dollar ($75.00) filing fee is required from the applicant or agent of the applicant at the time application is made   for a Special Exception Use. This fee is non-refundable in the event such proposal is not approved. 1.2 Public Notice Required A. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled Zoning Board of Adjustment, the Building Inspector shall give written notice of the proposal to all adjacent property owners as well as those property owners within five hundred feet (500°) of the subject property. Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States Mail - first class, postage prepaid and addressed to such property owners at their addresses as submitted with the application. Any error in the address of such notice shall not invalidate the giving of notice, provided that no more than five percent (5%) of the total number of notices given contain any such error. Such notice shall contain the following: L. The name of the applicant. 2. The location of the subject property. 3. The proposed use by Special Exception. 4, The time, date and location of the Board of Adjustment public hearing. Section 2.0 Hobby Farms A. B. The minimum lot area shall be two (2) acres. Unless otherwise provided for in this Ordinance, the keeping of farm animals and fowl (livestock and fowl) shall be limited to the following types: 1. Poultry. 2. Horses, donkeys and ponies, although the keeping of goats, sheep and swine are prohibited as a part of a hobby farm. The use shall be subject to the following setback and area requirements: 1, Farm animals shall be housed not less than two hundred feet (200°) from any adjacent lot not zoned A-1. 2 At least one (1) acre of lot area shall be required for each small livestock animal and a maximum of twenty (20) poultry for every 8,000 square feet of lot area shall be permitted. 95  3, Offensive animal odors shall not be detectable at the property line. Section 3.0 Shopping Centers Where permitted, a shopping center shall consist of a building group that is unified. A site development plan shall be required which provides for: 1, A minimum site depth of three hundred feet (300°) unless otherwise provided for elsewhere in this ordinance. An integrated parking area and vehicular loading spaces as specified in Article | Convenient vehicular servicing of the buildings, satisfactory circulation of traffic throughout the parking areas, and no undue interference with through traffic in gaining ingress and egress from the proposed site. The location, size and character of all exterior signs. A buffer strip of not less than twenty feet (20°) where a shopping center abuts any residential district. Convenient and safely located pedestrian walkways. A traffic analysis indicating the estimated effect of the proposed shopping center on adjacent street traffic, including volume flows to and from the proposed facility. This analysis should be prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. A preliminary plan or engineering report providing for: site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. Copy of any Deed Restrictions intended for the property upon which the shopping center is to be constructed. Section 4.0 Gasoline Service Stations Where permitted, Gasoline Service Stations shall observe all regulations for such structures and their uses as required by the laws of the State of Alabama, as well as provisions contained herein: - L. No gasoline service station shall be located within a radius of three hundred feet (300°) from a public assembly center, including but not limited to: places of worship, community centers, hospitals, schools, day care centers, and similar uses 96  in which large numbers of people are concentrated on a temporary or permanent basis. All permanent storage of materials, merchandise, and equipment shall be within the principal building or within the setback lines, with the exception of garbage and trash, which shall be located in an area enclosed on three (3) sides by an opaque fence of at least six feet (6’) in height and located behind the rear building line. Drains located on the premises without the approved separators in the trap shall be prohibited. Gasoline storage tanks shall be located underground and be in full compliance with Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) requirements. Applicable Only To New Service Stations: Ls Le Minimum site of 12,000 square feet. Frontage on a public street of one hundred and twenty feet (120°). Structures permitted on said site not to exceed one (1) principal structure, and three (3) triple gas pumps. All islands shall have a minimum of a twenty foot (20’) setback from the street. All driveways shall be set back a minimum of twenty feet (20°) from the property corners, shall not exceed thirty-five feet (35°) in width and shall be thirty feet (30°) apart. A minimum of 1,600 square feet of lot area is required for each additional triple pump island. ‘A lot area of 1,200 square feet shall be provided for each service bay or car wash and 150 square feet for a separate pay station. Applicable only to construction of gasoline pumps and facilities to existing establishments. The following minimum standards shall apply to the gasoline dispensing area, including pump islands and approach drives: 1. Qe One triple island: 2,700 square feet. One pay station and one triple island: 5,200 square feet. A minimum of 1,600 square feet of lot area shall be provided for each additional triple pump island and a minimum of 1,200 square feet of lot area shall be provided for each bay and car wash. * 97  The following are prohibited uses at Gasoline Service Stations: 1; Storage of vehicles on the premises for purposes other than maintenance and repair. This shall not include wrecked motor vehicles left on the premises temporarily for insurance inspection and estimates of repair. However, such vehicles shall not be parked or stored in the building or on the premises longer than seventy-two (72) hours. Major vehicle repair activities as defined in Article IV. Buying or offering for sale of new or used motor vehicles. Any use performed inside the principal building or on the premises which is offensive or dangerous or which constitutes a nuisance to the occupants of adjacent properties by reason of: smoke, fuels, dust, odor, vibrations, noise or unsightliness. Section 5.0 Restaurants, Fast Food Where permitted, Fast Food Restaurants shall comply with the following: Submission of a site development plan, which provides for: 1. A five foot (5°) high fence, constructed of opaque material, shall be located on all property lines of said Fast Food Restaurant premises not bordering on a public street. Where the Zoning Board of Adjustment deems appropriate, a buffer may be substituted, provided the desired screening effect is achieved by providing a visually impervious barrier. The front yard and any side yard adjacent to a public street shall be provided with a ten-foot (10’) wide buffer, except where a driveway opening is necessary for ingress to and egress from the site. A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report providing for the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply shall be prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. Fixed lighting shall be arranged so as not to: shine, reflect, or glare onto surrounding properties or public streets. The outside premises of any Fast Food Restaurant shall be cleared of all used paper, trash, refuse and other waste materials at least once every six (6) hours prior to closing. ~ Fast Food Restaurants shall not be permitted to install and maintain loud speakers or jukeboxes in a manner which allows sounds coming there from to be 98  heard outside the restaurant building. This shall not, however, include microphones and speakers necessary for ordering food at drive-thru windows. Each Fast Food Restaurant shall be provided with a dumpster pad which shall be located in the rear of the establishment and enclosed in a manner adequate to conceal such from public view. Section 6.0 Hospitals Where permitted, Hospitals shall comply with the following regulations: Submission of a site development plan which provides for: fe A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report providing for site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers, and water supply, prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. Where deemed necessary, by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, a traffic analysis indicating the estimated traffic flows to and from the hospital prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. For each bed in a hospital there shall be one hundred ( 100) square feet of outdoor open space, exclusive of required front yards, side yards, buffer areas, parking areas, loading spaces, or other purposes. Said outdoor space shall be open and unobstructed from the ground upwards. Section 7.0 Nursing Care Facilities Where permitted, a Nursing Care Facility shall comply with the following requirements: Submission of a site development plan which provides for: i A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report providing for: the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers, and water supply, prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. Where deemed necessary by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, a traffic analysis indicating the estimated traffic flows to and from the nursing care facility prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer. For each bed in the nursing facility there shall be two hundred (200) square fee of outdoor open space, exclusive of: required front yards, side yards, buffer areas, parking areas, loading spaces or other purposes. The said outdoor open space shall be open and unobstructed from the ground upwards. 99   Section 8.0 Cemeteries Where permitted, Cemeteries shall comply with the following requirements: A site development plan which depicts the boundaries of the cemetery, existing zoning, adjacent land uses, topography, drainage and buffers. 1. No part of a Cemetery shall be located closer than two hundred feet (200’) from any residential zone district in the City, nor closer than five hundred feet (500°) from any hospital or nursing care facility. A six foot (6°) high protective wall or fence shall be constructed on all property lines, except at points of ingress and egress. Cemeteries shall be exempt from any required buffering or screening along public rights-of-way. The facility shall have installed gates with locks at points of ingress and egress. No grave site shall be located closer than one hundred and fifty feet (150°) from a water line or underground water supply. Mausoleums, crematoriums or any other buildings or structures accessory to or incidental to a cemetery shall not be closer than two hundred feet (200’) from any property line. Section 9.0 Home Occupations Where permitted, Home Occupations shall comply with the following requirements: 1 The Home Occupation shall be clearly incidental to residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential character of the dwelling or adversely affect the uses permitted in the district of which it is a part. No Home Occupation shall be permitted which might interfere with the general welfare of the surrounding residential area due to potential noise, increased pedestrian and vehicular traffic or any other conditions which would constitute an objectionable use of residentially zoned property. Customary Home Occupations shall be limited to an office or a business of a personal service nature. The Home Occupation shall be confined to twenty-five percent (25%) of the principal dwelling. However, no outside storage shall be used in connection with a Home Occupation. In addition, no additional buildings or structures may be constructed in connection with the Home Occupation. Employment shall be limited to members of the family residing in the dwelling and there shall be no employment of help other than members of the residential family. 100  10. [L, No display of products shall be visible from the street and only articles made on the premises may be sold. Instruction of music, art, dancing and similar activities shall be limited to two (2) students at a time and any noise created by the activity shall not be detectable outside the premises. The activity carried on as a Home Occupation shall be limited to the hours between 7:00 A.M. and 10:00 P.M. The Building Inspector of the City of Fultondale, and a representative of Public Safety Department of the City, shall be permitted to make an inspection upon _ receipt of the initial application; and, in addition, make annual inspections at license renewal time or at any time, upon reasonable request, to enter and inspect the premises covered for safety and compliance purposes. The Building Inspector and/or representative of the Public Safety Department shall file with the Zoning Board of Adjustment a written inspection report of any inspection to determine if the licensee is in compliance with this section or, if not in compliance, to set out any area of non-compliance. Should a Home Occupation licensee die or move to a new location, the existing license shall automatically terminate, except that, in the case of death, should a surviving spouse, or adult child then residing at the same residence desire to continue the Home Occupation, the license would remain in effect if otherwise in compliance. Signs shall be in accord with the specifications set forth in Article X of this ordinance. Section 10.0 Mini-warehouses A. Where permitted mini-warehouses shall comply with the following requirements: he No outdoor storage shall be permitted on the site. 2. No storage of volatile, toxic or explosive materials shall be permitted, either inside the structure(s) or on the premises. 3. The facility or site shall not be used for wholesale or retail sales operations or activities. However, this shall not include periodic auctions which are held on the premises to dispose of items which have been abandoned and/or for which the lease time has expired. ~ 4, A minimum lot size of three (3) acres shall be required for a mini- warehouse development and such facility shall be limited to one (1) story in height. 101  5. Screen fencing shall be installed around the perimeter of the project. The said fencing shall be a minimum of eight feet (8’) in height. The points of access to the facility shall be provided with gates which shall be locked when the facility is not open for business. 6. All outdoor lighting shall be shielded to direct light and glare only onto the mini-warehouse premises and may be of sufficient intensity to discourage vandalism and theft. The said lighting and glare shall be deflected, shaded, and focused away from all adjoining property. he A resident manager shall be required on the site and shall be responsible for maintaining the operation of the facility in conformance with the _ conditions of approval and all applicable provisions. 8. A limit of thirty (30) mini-warehouses or 15,000 square feet of mini- warehouse floor area per acre is required. A site development plan is required, which provides for: Li; A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report which addresses site grading, storm drainage, water run-off, the availability of required utilities, and the identification of areas to be buffered. A twelve foot (12°) buffer shall be provided along all property lines abutting any residential zone district within the City. Section 11.0 Private Tennis Courts Where permitted, private tennis courts shall comply with the following requirements: All tennis courts constructed in single-family or two family residential districts shall meet the following minimum standards: 1. Di The tennis court shall be located in the rear yard. The tennis court may not be located any closer than twenty-five feet (25) from any property line and residential structure. All fences shall meet the requirements of Article VII, Section 4.0. Tennis courts for multifamily and commercial uses shall meet the standards deemed appropriate by the Zoning Board of Adjustment during the review of each specific proposal, including but not limited to required buffers. If lighted, all exterior lighting fixtures shall be constructed in a manner so as to direct the beam of light toward the facility itself and away from any adjacent areas. Said fixtures shall not exceed twenty-five feet (25°) in height. 102  Section 12.0 Industrial Parks Where permitted, Industrial Parks shall comply with the following requirements: 1. An Industrial Park shall, for the purpose of this Ordinance, include all land forty (40) acres or more in size, subdivided and platted into two (2) or more parcels, and used or intended to be used for predominately industrial or commercial purposes of an Industrial character. A site development plan shall be required for each Industrial Park which provides the following: a. b. Access to an Industrial Park shall be by way of a major thoroughfare. All streets or roadways within an Industrial Park shall have a minimum right-of-way width of seventy feet (70°), a maximum gradient of five percent (5%) and shall conform to the City of Fultondale standards for commercial streets or as otherwise approved by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with Article IX of this Ordinance. Outdoor storage in an Industrial Park shall be permitted ONLY when accessory to a permitted principal use and only when storage areas are suitably screened by either landscaping, fences or walls, and are located at least one hundred feet (100°) from any property line and at least one hundred and fifty feet (150°) from any street lines. Such storage areas shall not cover more than fifteen percent (15%) of the site areas. The Fultondale Zoning Board of Adjustment shall approve plans for the location and screening of all outdoor storage areas before a building permit shall be issued for their construction. A buffer area not less than twenty feet (20’) in width shall be provided along all property lines of an Industrial Park which abuts any residential zone. Cul-de-sac streets shall not be permitted in Industrial Parks. Dead-end streets, however, are permitted when not more than five hundred feet (500°) in length, as measured from the terminal point of the dead-end street to the closest intersection, and when such terminal point is provided with a paved vehicle turnaround area having a minimum right-of-way radius of seventy feet (70°). Street lighting shall be provided in accordance with the City of Fultondale street lighting standards with the location of street lights in conformance with Alabama Power Company recommendations. 103  The vehicular approach to an Industrial Park site from a public street or highway shall be so designed that uncontrolled left hand turns from the street or highway shall be eliminated or reduced either by a frontage roadway or other suitable means deemed adequate by the Zoning Board of Adjustment and Street Department Superintendent. Sight distances at all points of ingress and egress to public streets or highways shall not be less than one thousand feet (1,000’), except where a traffic signal light is installed at the entrance to or exit from the Industrial Park site unless otherwise determined by a study conducted by the City Engineer or other persons qualified in this field. Where points of ingress and egress to Industrial Parks from public streets or highways having speed limits in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour are located, acceleration and de-acceleration lanes shall be provided on such public thoroughfares, with lane lengths, as indicated below: Road Speed In Miles Per Hour: 30 40 50 55 Distance in Feet: 100 200 300 350 A report of subsurface soil conditions shall be provided to the City Engineer, Superintendent of Streets, and Zoning Board of Adjustment by an Alabama Professional Engineer as evidence of suitable bearing for foundations in the construction of industrial structures of a nature intended to be used within the proposed Industrial Park. A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report shall be submitted to the City Engineer and Zoning Board of Adjustment which provides for the Site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewerage and water supply, prepared by an Alabama Professional Registered Engineer. A copy of any deed restrictions shall be provided to the Planning Commission. Section 13.0 Transmission Towers (Commercial) Where permitted, the distance between the base of the tower and property lines abutting urban residential districts, public parks and roads must equal twenty percent (20%) of the tower height; property lines adjacent to other uses (e. g. agricultural, industrial), require a setback equal to the rear yard setback established for the underlying zone. Li All applicants for such towers shall submit an engineering report to both the Building Inspector and to the Planning Commission, documenting all of the following: Height, design and building materials, including pertinent technical, engineering, economic and other factors influencing the final design. 104  Total anticipated capacity of the structure, including the number and types of antennas that can be accommodated. Evidence of structural integrity. Failure characteristics of the tower and demonstration that the site and setbacks are of adequate size to contain debris. Mitigation measures for ice and other hazards, including setbacks and de- icing equipment. Where applicable, adequate parking shall be provided, along with buffers where such tower site abuts any residential zone district. Such towers shall be prohibited in any residential zone district of the City. In all zones permitted, a security fence, around the tower base or along the perimeter of the site, shall be required to prevent unauthorized entry, vandalism and injuries. In addition, all such structures shall be in full compliance with ALL applicable local, State and Federal Regulations. 105  ARTICLE IX OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS Section 1.0 Purpose of Off-street Parking and Loading Requirements The primary purpose of these provisions is to reduce traffic congestion on public streets of the City of Fultondale by requiring certain minimum parking and loading areas be provided off-street. Further, these provisions insure safe and convenient access to and from each site, as well as safe and efficient on-site traffic circulation and encourage the design of attractive, efficient and harmonious facilities. 1.1 Off-street Parking and Loading Terms Defined The following off-street parking and loading terms, when used in this article, shall have the meanings defined in this section: Access Boundary That portion of the parking area that consists of a travel lane bounded on either side by an area that is not part of the parking area. BR Bedroom or guest accommodations. DU Dwelling unit Employees The maximum number of persons employed at the facility regardless of the time period during which this occurs or whether the persons are full-time employees. The major shift may be a particular day of the week or a lunch or dinner period in the case of a restaurant. GLA Gross Leasable Area. The total floor area of a building designed for both tenant occupancy and exclusive use. GLA includes both owned and leased areas but does not include shared or common areas among tenants. Where the total floor area of a building is occupied or where a building has no shared or common area, GLA is the gross floor area measured by taking the outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or storage. Inoperative Motor Vehicle A motor vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public streets for reasons including, but not limited to, being unlicensed, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under its own power. Abandoned Motor Vehicle A vehicle that is in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under its own power. -  Loading Area That area used to satisfy the requirements of this Ordinance for truck loading and unloading. 1.2 Loading Space An off-street space or berth used for the unloading or loading of commercial vehicles. Occupancy Load The maximum number of persons which may be accommodated by the use as determined by its design or by fire code standards. Parking Aisle That portion of the parking area consisting of lanes providing access to parking spaces. Parking Area An improved area on a lot exclusively used or designed for use as a temporary storage area for motor vehicles, containing access driveways, parking aisles and parking spaces. Parking Space That portion of the parking area set aside for the parking of one (1) vehicle. SF Square Feet Stacking Space An off-street space for the temporary stacking of vehicles with an aisle intended to serve a drive-in teller window, take-out food window, dry cleaning/laundry pick-up or similar type activity station. Required Off-street Parking Spaces Unless otherwise provided for, all uses shall conform with the minimum parking space requirements outlined below. In situations where the required number of parking spaces is not readily determinable by the below table, the Building Inspector is authorized to determine the parking space requirements using the table aS a guide. A, Agricultural Uses Required Parking Spaces. 1 Farms 1 per 1.5 employees Zi Farm Stands I per 100 sq. ft. of display area B. Residential Uses ag Duplexes, Manufactured (Mobile) Homes, Garden Homes, Townhouses, Single-Family Residences, Apartment (multifamily) units 2 per DU 2. Elderly residential developments 0.5 per DU 107  Institutional Uses i. 2s 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. Boarding Houses Clubs Community Centers Country Clubs Day Care Centers Hospitals Nursing Care, Domiciliary Care Facility. Places of Worship Post Offices Public Assembly Centers Public Facilities Schools-College or University Schools-Elementary or Junior High Schools - Vocational or High School 108 1 per BR 1 per 100 sq. ft. of non-storage and non-service floor area. 1 per 300 sq. ft. of GLA 1 per 3 persons of occupancy load. 1 per employee, plus | stacking or parking space per 8 persons enrolled of occupancy load. 1 per 2 patient beds plus 1.5 per emergency room bed plus 1 per employee. 1 per 2 employees of occupancy load plus 1 per employee. 1 per 3 persons seated in the main sanctuary of occupancy load. 1 per 300 sq. ft. of.GLA plus 1 per 1.5 employees. 1 per 3 persons of occupancy load. 1 per 300 sq. ft. of GLA. 1 per 3 students of occupancy load plus, 1 per 1.5 employees. 1 per 8 students of occupancy load or 2 per classroom, whichever is greater. 1 per 6 students of occupancy load, plus 1 per 1.5 employees. Commercial Uses Li Di 10. LI, 2. 13. 14, Appliance Stores Banks Billiard Rooms, Pool Halls Barber or Beauty Shops Car Washes Clinics Commercial Schools Convenience Stores Farm Support Businesses Furniture Stores Gasoline Service Stations: General Retail Businesses or Personal Service Establishments Home Improvement Centers Hotels or Motels 109 1 per 400 sq. ft. of GLA 1 per 150 sq. ft. of GLA plus 4 stacking spaces per drive-in window. 1 per table 1 per 100 sq. ft. of GLA Bowling Alley 4 per alley 1 per 1.5 employees plus 4 stacking spaces per bay. 6 per practitioner 1 per 3 students of occupancy load plus 1 per 1.5 employees. 1 per 125 sq. ft. of GLA Funeral Home 1 per 1.5 employees plus 1 per 3 chapel seats of occupancy load plus 1 per company vehicle. 1 per 1.5 employees, plus 1 per company vehicle. 1 per 500 sq. ft. of GLA 2 per service bay plus 1 per company vehicle plus 1 per 1.5 employees plus 2 stacking spaces per fuel island. I per 200 sq. ft. of GLA 1 per 400 sq. ft. of GLA employees. 1 pér room.plus ‘1 per 1,5 C qey ey  15. 16. 17. 18. 19, 20. ol. 22. 2% 24. 25. Laundromats, Dry Cleaning Establishments Liquor Lounges (free standing) Mini-Warehouses Motor Vehicle Services Offices, Business or Professional Open Air Markets Outdoor Recreation: Golf Course Carpet Golf Golf Driving Range Other Restaurants Shopping Centers Add for Restaurants Add for Theaters Stables Tourist Homes, Bed and Breakfast Inns 110 1 per machine or 1 per 200 sq. ft. of GLA, whichever is greater. 1 space per 4 seats plus 1 space per 50 sq. ft. open to the public. 1 per 20 units Motor Vehicle Sales 1 per 200 sf of sales area plus 1 per service bay plus 1 per 2,500 sf of outdoor display area. 1 per 200 sf of sales area plus 1 per service bay. 1 per 200 sf of GLA 1 per 100 sf of display area. 5 per hole 2 per tee 1 per tee 1 per 3 persons of occupancy load. 1 per 100 sf of GLA plus 1 per delivery vehicle plus 4 stacking spaces per drive-in window. 5 1/2 Parking Spaces per 1,000 sf of GLA I per 100 sf of GLA ] per 3 persons of occupancy load. 1 per 3 persons of occupancy load plus 1 per 1.5 employees. 1 per guest bedroom plus 1 per employee. E. Industrial Uses iL. General Industry and 1 per 1.5 employees Manufacturing, Research plus 1 per company vehicle but Laboratories and similar not less than 1 per 1,000 uses. sf of GLA. Warehouses, Distribution 1 per 1.5 employees plus and Wholesale Businesses 1 per company vehicle but not less than 1 per 500 sf of GLA. 1.3 Off-street Parking Design Requirements A. The minimum Parking Space dimensions shall be as follows: 1, Each Parking Space shall contain a minimum rectangular area of nine feet (9°) wide and nineteen feet (19°) long, except as provided in (2) and (3) below. In large parking areas of twenty (20) Parking Spaces, or more, up to twenty percent (20%) of the Parking Spaces may be reserved for compact cars. Such spaces shall contain a minimum rectangular area of eight feet (8°) wide and sixteen feet (16°) long. These spaces shall be conspicuously marked for compact cars only. Parallel Parking Spaces shall contain a minimum rectangular area of nine feet (9°) wide and twenty-two feet (22°) long. Stacking Space shall contain a minimum rectangular area of ten feet (10°) wide and twenty feet (20°) long and be separated from parking aisles and spaces. Handicapped Parking Spaces shall be provided and designed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Standard Building Code, 1994, Chapter 11, and as such may be amended with regard to Accessibility For the Physically Disabled And/Or Handicapped. B. Parking areas shall be designed so that vehicles may exit such areas without backing onto a public street. This requirement does not apply to parking areas that serve one (1) or two (2) dwelling units, although backing into arterial streets shall be prohibited. C. All parking areas, when adjoining a street right-of-way between adjoining lots shall be physically separated from the right-of-way. 111  D. All lighting fixtures used to illuminate parking areas shall not direct lights on adjoining streets or properties. E; Parking areas for all developments shall be so designed that sanitation, emergency and other public service vehicles can adequately and safely serve such developments without the necessity of backing unreasonable distances or making other dangerous maneuvers. Fire lanes may be required by the Fire Code. F, All parking areas shall be surfaced with dust-free materials (asphalt or concrete). G. Parking spaces (except those serving one (1) or two (2) dwelling units) — shall be demarcated with painted lines or other markings. H. All parking areas shall be maintained in good condition, i.e. free of pot holes, weeds, trash, refuse, etc. i, Drainage in parking areas shall direct storm water back into the site from adjacent properties toward adequate drainage channels. Large parking areas of twenty (20) spaces, or more, shall provide on-site storm water detention to retard the sudden discharge of high volumes of storm water into the public drainage system. The quality and rate of runoff after development shall not exceed the quantity and rate of runoff before development, based on a twenty-five year (25) storm frequency. Drainage plans shall be subject to approval by both the Planning Commission and the City Engineer. 1.4 Location of Required Parking A. All required parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the use served by the parking, except as provided below: Ls Required parking within planned residential developments may be provided in common parking areas. 2. If the number of required parking spaces cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot as the served use, satellite parking may be provided on an adjacent lot. The satellite parking spaces shall be located within four hundred feet (400°) of the nearest public entrance to the building housing the principal use. If the use is not housed within a building, satellite parking spaces shall be located within four hundred feet (400’) of the lot. A satellite parking exception requires written legal documentation that the user of such satellite spaces has the right to such spaces. 3. A joint parking area may contain required parking spaces for more than one (1) use, provided the combined number of spaces 112  complies with the parking for all uses. If, however, the combined uses wish to make use of the same spaces at different times, the same spaces may be credited to each separate use. The applicant for a combined use facility must present documentation of a combined parking agreement; and, if sharing the same spaces, a time schedule for allocation of such spaces. 1.5 Parking Prohibitions A. The keeping of an inoperative motor vehicle in a residential district shall be within a fully enclosed building or structure or be completely screened or shielded from public view. Moreover, no inoperative motor vehicle shall be parked on any public street. No vehicle exceeding 7,500 pounds gross weight and no boats, trailers, recreational vehicles, campers and similar equipment, regardless of weight, shall be kept within a residential district, unless such vehicle is parked behind the front building line. The use of Off-street Parking in all residential districts for non- residential purposes is prohibited. The use of any required parking space for the storage of any motor vehicle for sale, or for any purpose other than the parking of a motor vehicle for employees or visitors is prohibited. 1.6 Access Controls A. Proposed access points within the City shall be reviewed by the Building Inspector, Street Department Superintendent, City Engineer and shall be approved by the Planning Commission. The proposed location, width, drainage structure, traffic conditions, site distances and resurfacing shall be addressed in the request for approval. Entrances shall be held to a minimum and be located at points affording maximum sight distances, minimum grades and maximum separation. Combined or shared driveways and entrances or marginal access streets may be required for highway service uses along major streets. The maximum number of entrances for each site shall be limited on the basis of street frontage as follows: Street Frontage Width Maximum Number of Entrances  ~~ Less than 125 feet One 125 to 300 feet Two 300 to 500 Feet Three 113  1.7 Street Frontage Width Maximum Number of Entrances 500 to 1,000 Feet Four More than 1,000 Feet Five Property which has frontage on two (2) streets, or more, may be allowed entrances on each street in accordance with the above criteria. The distance between openings shall be one hundred and twenty-five feet (125”), except for single-family detached lots. Entrances shall be located so that the curb openings are a minimum | of five feet (5°) from the nearest edge of a street drainage inlet and fifty feet (50°) from the corner radius. Turning lanes or pavement widening at approaches to entrances may be required if deemed necessary by the City Engineer to provide safe turning movements. Each parking area on a lot shall be physically separated from an adjoining street right-of-way by a curb or equivalent barrier to control vehicular access to and from the lot. Such barrier shall be located at or along the front lot line, unless suitable barriers are located within the street-right-of-way. Except for permitted access ways, such barriers shall be continuous. Required Off-street Loading Spaces A. Any use with a gross leasable area (GLA) of 6,000 square feet or more which requires deliveries and shipments must provide off-street loading spaces in accordance with the following table. In situations where the required number of loading spaces is not readily determinable by the table, the Building Inspector is authorized to determine the loading space requirement, using the table as a guide. GLA of Building Required Number Of Loading Spaces 6,000-24,999 1 25 ,000-79,999 2 80,000-127,999 3 128,000-198,999 = 99 000-255 ,999 5 256,000-319,999 6 320,000-391,999 7 Each additional 72,000 square feet 1 114  1.8 1.9 Every public assembly use, auditorium, convention hall, exhibition hall, stadium, office building, funeral home, multifamily apartment buildings of twenty (20) or more units, restaurants and hotels of 30,000 square feet or more shall provide off-street loading spaces, as follows: GLA Of Building Required Number of Loading Spaces 6,000-29,999 30,000-44,999 45,000-119,999 120,000-197,999 198,000-290,999 291,000-389,999 390,000-488,999 489 ,000-587,999 588,000-689,999 Each Additional 105,000 Square Feet —WOmOITIAMP WN HE Off-street Loading Design Standards A. Each loading space shall have a minimum rectangular area of twelve feet (12°) wide and fifty-five feet (55°) long, exclusive of driver and maneuvering space. Each space shall allow vertical clearance of fourteen feet (14%). No loading space shall be located within the front yard or within five feet (5°) of any property line. No loading space shall be used to meet the parking space requirement, interfere with the on-site circulation of traffic, nor allow a truck to expand into any right-of-way or over any property line. All lighting fixtures used to illuminate loading areas shall not direct light on adjacent streets or properties. All required loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the principal use served by the spaces, unless a satellite or joint use loading facility is secured in equivalent as satellite or joint parking facilities, as provided by Subsection 1.4, Location of Required Parking. Change In Parking and Loading Requirements Whenever there is an alteration of a structure, an expansion of a use, or a change in use which increases the parking and loading requirements; the use shall conform with the off-street parking and loading standards of this Ordinance to the furthest practicable extent. 115  ARTICLE X SIGN REGULATIONS Section 1.0 Purpose and Intent The purpose of these Sign Regulations are: to encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication in the City of Fultondale, to maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment and the City’s ability to attract sources of economic development and growth, to improve pedestrian and traffic safety, to minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and private property; and, to enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these — regulations. This Sign Ordinance is adopted under the Zoning Authority of the City of Fultondale in furtherance of the more general purposes set forth in the Zoning Ordinance. 1.1 Definitions Applicable To This Ordinance The: following definitions are applicable to the Sign Section of this Ordinance: As Animated Sign Any sign that uses movement or change in lighting to depict action or create a special effect or scheme. Banner Any sign of light-weight fabric or similar material that is temporarily mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame or one (1) or more edges. National Flags, State and Municipal Flags or Official Flags of any institution or business shall not be considered banners. See Temporary Sign. Bench Sign Shall mean any sign located on any part of the surface of a bench or seat placed on or adjacent to a public right-of-way. Billboard A non-point of sale sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or activity sold or offered for sale at a location other than the premises upon which said billboard is located. See Off- Premise Sign. Bulletin Board A sign which identifies an institution or organization on the premises of which it is located and which contains the name of the institution or organization, the name of individuals connected with it and general information or announcements of events or activities occurring at the institution or similar messages. Changeable Copy Sign (Electronic) A sign board that is designed so that the characters, letters or illustrations can be electronically changed or arranged without permanently altering the face or the surface of the sign. Changeable Copy Sign (Manual) A sign that is designed so that characters, letters or illustrations can be manually changed or arranged without permanently altering the face or surface of the sign. Construction Sign Shall mean any sign giving the name or names of principal contractors, architects and lending institutions responsible for construction on the site where the sign is placed, together with other information included thereon. See Temporary Sign. Directory Sign A sign upon which the name and location of the occupants or the use of a building is given. Erect Shall mean to: build, construct, attach, hang, place, mount, suspend or affix and shall include the painting of wall signs upon the exterior wall surface of buildings or structures. Free-standing Sign Any sign supported by structures or supports that are placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any building or other structure. Ground Sign Any sign which is supported by structures or supports in or upon the ground and independent of support from any building. Also qualifies as a free-standing sign. Illuminated Sign A sign lighted by or exposed to artificial lighting either by lights on or inside the sign face or directed towards the sign. L Indirect Light One reflecting light from a separate outside source aimed toward it, including silhouettes on a background or reflected light. 2. Direct Light One emitting light from a source within or affixed to the sign face, and beaming outward from it. 3. Intermittent Light Any flashing, traveling light, including arrangements that spell messages, simulate motion or form various symbols or images. Location Any lot, premises, building, structure, wall or any place whatsoever upon which a sign is located. - Non-conforming Sign Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of this Ordinance. Off-premise Sign A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity, service, entertainment or activity conducted, sold or offered for sale at a location other than the premises upon which the sign is located. On-premise Sign A sign which advertises only goods, services, facilities, events or attractions available on the premises where located, or identifies the owner or occupant or directs traffic on the premises. 117  Permanent Sign A sign which is originally designed, constructed or modified to be permanently affixed to a building, structure or to the ground. Person Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or organization, singular or plural, of any kind. Portable Sign Any sign which is not permanently affixed to the ground or other permanent structure or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not limited to signs designed to be transported by means of wheels, signs converted to "A" or "T" frames, menu and sandwich board signs, balloons used as signs, umbrellas used for advertising and signs _ attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right- of-way, unless said vehicle is used in the day to day operation of a business. Premises A lot or tract of land upon which a sign is located or is to be located. Projecting Sign Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner that its leading edge extends more than six inches (6”) beyond the surface of such building or wall. Principal Building The building in which is conducted the principal use of the zone lot on which it is located. Zone lots with multiple principal uses may have multiple principal buildings, but storage buildings, garages and other buildings which are clearly accessory in nature shall not be considered principal buildings. Roof Sign Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a building, supported by the roof structure. Roof Sign - Integral Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more than six inches (6%). Sign A name, identification, image, description, display or illustration which is affixed to, painted on, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure, or piece of land, and which directs attention to an object, product, place, activity, facility, service, event, attraction, person, institution, organization or business and which is visible from any street, right-of-way, sidewalk, alley, park or other public property. Customary displays of merchandise or objects and material without lettering placed behind a store window are not considered Signs or part of sign. 118  Z-2 Sign Area The area of a sign, measured as follows: A. Freestanding or projecting signs shall be measured as the area within a single rectangle which encompasses the extreme limits of each and every sign face, including all advertising surfaces, background, framing and ornamentation; but excluding structural members not forming an integral part of the display or pole covers which contain no advertising copy. The area of all such faces shall be totaled and such resultant area shall be divided by two (2) to determine the total sign area. B. All other signs shall be measured as the area within a single rectangle which encompasses all letters, words, symbols or other graphic elements, _ plus any background area which does not appear as a continuous portion of the building surface. Sign Face The surface or surfaces used for the display of a sign message as seen from only one direction. Signable Wall Area The area within a rectangle which encompasses a continuous portion of a building facade, unbroken by windows, doors or major architectural interruptions of the building surface. For signs located completely within a gable, signable wall area may be triangular in shape. Snipe Sign Shall mean any sign of any materials whatsoever that is attached in any way to a utility pole, tree or any object located on public right-of-way. Spacing Of Signs The distance between signs measured from points directly opposite the signs along the nearest edge of the pavement or roadway edge of the main thoroughfare or traveled way of the street or thoroughfare to which said signs are directed. Temporary Sign Any sign not originally designed, constructed, or intended to permanently be affixed to any building, structure or the ground. Temporary signs shall be removed by the party or parties posting or erecting them, and where stipulated, within the specified time period. Temporary Subdivision Sign A temporary sign advertising the sale of property in an approved subdivision within the City. Wall Sign Any sign painted on or attached to and erected parallel to the face of, or erected and confined within the limits of, the outside wall of any building and supported by such wall or building and which displays only one advertising surface. * 119  1.2 Z-9 Window Sign Any sign, picture, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, product, service, event, or sale that is placed inside a window or upon the window pane or glass and is visible from the exterior of the building. General Regulations Applying To All Signs In any zoning district within the City of Fultondale, the following regulations shall apply: Bs No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where by reason of its position, working, illumination, shape, symbol, color, form or character, it may obstruct, impair, obscure, interfere with the view of, or may be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device, or interfere with, mislead, confuse, or disrupt traffic flow of traffic safety. B. Signs incorporating any noisy mechanical device (whistles, horns, noise makers, sirens or any other noisy audible devices) are expressly prohibited within the City of Fultondale. Cc, No sign of any type or foundation or support thereof shall be placed in a public street right-of-way. D. No sign having flashing, traveling, or animated illumination shall be permitted in any zone district of the City except for permanent Signs located in commercial districts giving public service information such as, but not limited to: time, date, temperature, news or weather. BE. All portable and temporary signs shall be set back at least twenty feet (20’) from the pavement edge of a public street or road; and, in no case shall such signs be closer than ten feet (10°) from the property line. No portable or temporary sign of any type shall be permitted within thirty-five feet (35”) of an intersection of the pavement edge lines of two (2) public streets or roads, or of the edge of pavement line of a public street or road and the right-of-way line of a railroad. F, No illuminated sign, other than a permanent subdivision identification sign shall be permitted within fifty feet (50°) of any residential zone district of the City. G. The area around all signs shall be kept clean and free of trash and all vegetation, unless such is a part of the landscaping associated with the Sign. In this case, such shall be well maintained. In addition, it shall be the responsibility of the sign owner/lessor or property owner to maintain all signs in a safe and proper operating manner at all times. 120   1.3 G. The area around all signs shall be kept clean and free of trash and all vegetation, unless such is a part of the landscaping associated with the sign. In this case, such shall be well maintained. In addition, it shall be the responsibility of the sign owner/lessor or property owner to maintain all signs in a safe and proper operating manner at all times. HH. No person shall park any vehicle or trailer on a public street or public parking area for the sole purpose of advertising. I; Snipe signs shall not be permitted in any district, except as may be authorized by the City Ordinance. J. No permanent freestanding/pole mounted or ground sign of any type shall be permitted within thirty-five feet (35°) of the intersection of the pavement edge lines of two (2) public roads, unless the same is mounted at a height of at least ten feet (10°) from the ground level at the base of the sign and upon poles or other means of support which is adequately designed and constructed to support said sign. K. No sign shall occupy any portion of a parking space or aisle. L. All signs shall conform with the Standard Building Code, Chapter XXIII, or as may be amended, which provides a comprehensive set of construction standards for signs. These specifications include wind loads, vibration resistance, seismic loads, acceptable supports, allowable stresses and electrical wiring and components. M. Professional signs for Home Occupations, where permitted, shall not exceed three (3) square feet in area. Such sign may be either a wall mounted sign or a ground sign. However, if such is a ground sign, it shall not be located any closer than twenty feet (20°) from the street right-of- way. Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions A. Except as may be otherwise provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following signs are exempt from sign permit requirements and from the provisions of this Ordinance, subject, however, to meeting all applicable regulations and codes, as well as established City Policy concerning any of these signs. I. Permanent or temporary signs required to be posted by law. De Permanent or temporary warning signs and no trespassing signs. No snipe signs allowed. 121  10. LJ, 12, 13. 14. 15. Permanent or temporary signs established by, or by order of, any government agency or official body. Signs indicating the location of bus stops, taxi stands and similar transportation facilities. Signs giving information concerning the location or use of accessory off-street parking facilities or loading or unloading facilities. Permanent or temporary signs required for the control of vehicular or pedestrian traffic. Temporary holiday signs, banners, displays and decorations, subject _ to established City policy. Routine sign maintenance and repair, including the changing of copy on changeable copy signs. Decorative flags and bunting for City-wide celebrations, conventions, and commemorations, when authorized by the City for a specified time period. One (1) construction sign per street frontage located on property where building is actually in progress under a current building permit. This shall be a ground sign not to exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area, be non-illuminated, and may include the names of persons and firms performing such services, labor or supplying materials to the premises. Such sign must be removed before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued. Flags, banners or insignias of a governmental, religious, charitable or fraternal organization, subject to established City Policy. Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except letters, trademarks, or moving parts. Directory signs located inside the buildings they serve. Signs not exceeding three (3) square feet in area and bearing only Property numbers, post office box numbers, or names of the occupants of the premises to which the sign pertains. Window signs located in commercial zone districts, which identify or advertise activities, services, goods or products available within the building, and which collectively cover twenty percent (20%) or less of the window glass surface area. 122  16. 7, 18. 19, 20. Temporary political campaign posters, provided that they do not create traffic hazards as a result of poor or improper placement, and further provided that they are removed within twenty-four (24) hours after the general or run-off election or political event to which they pertain by the individual or individuals posting them. Such signs shall not be illuminated in any manner whatsoever. No snipe signs allowed. Signs which advertise yard sales or garage sales, provided they are not located in such a manner so as to obstruct or otherwise interfere with motorists’ vision and further provided that they are removed within twenty-four (24) hours following the end of such sale. The ; signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in sign area nor shall such signs be illuminated in any manner whatsoever. No snipe signs allowed. Temporary, non-illuminated signs, located in residential and agricultural districts, not to exceed four (4) square feet in sign area, pertaining to agricultural products raised on the premises. No snipe signs allowed. Temporary, non-illuminated real estate signs which are used to offer for sale, lease, or rent the property upon which said signs are located. No snipe signs allowed. Fuel price informational signs, in any district in which gasoline sales are permitted and signs advertising the price of motor vehicle fuel sold from a fuel dispenser located on the premises, including logos, and advertising signs attached to, or painted onto, the fuel dispensers themselves. Section 2.0 Signs Permitted In Residential Areas The following types of signs are permitted in Residential Zone Districts of the City of Fultondale, subject to specified requirements, unless otherwise provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance. Also, see Subsections 1.2, Regulations Pertaining To Signs, and subsection 1.3, Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions. 1. For detached or attached single-family, two-family and multifamily dwelling districts, nameplates, not to exceed three (3) square feet in sign area shall be permitted for each dwelling unit. Such nameplates shall indicate nothing more than the name and address of the premises, the occupants thereof, announcements, etc. If lighted, such nameplates may be lighted with indirect illumination only. 123  Professional signs for Home Occupations, where permitted, shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area. Such signs may be either wall mounted or ground signs and shall not be illuminated in any manner. If such sign is ground mounted, said sign shall not be located closer than twenty feet (20°) from the street right-of- way. Temporary ground signs, non-illuminated, advertising yard sales, garage sales or the sale of personal property. Such signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in sign area and shall not be located any closer than twenty feet (20°) from the street right-of-way. Such signs shall be removed within twenty-four (24) hours after such sale by the individual or individuals posting them. Permanent subdivision identification signs. Such shall be ground signs, (which, if illuminated, shall utilize only indirect illumination) which may include a masonry wall, landscaping and other similar materials or features, designed and intended to form a display for neighborhood or subdivision identification. Such signs shall be limited to one (1) each at the principal entrance to the subdivision and located along the main street leading to the subdivision. Such sign shall not exceed forty-eight (48) square feet in sign area and shall not be located in such a manner so as to create a traffic safety hazard with respect to placement. Such sign shall not be located closer than fifteen feet (15”) from the pavement edge of the street or thoroughfare to which it is directed. Temporary ground subdivision signs, which are non-illuminated. Such signs shall be limited to one (1) each at the principal entrance to the subdivision and located along the main traffic thoroughfare leading into the subdivision. Such a sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in sign area and shall be displayed only during such time as some portion of the property is unsold. Such signs shall be located no closer than fifteen feet (15”) from the property line of the street to which it is directed and shall not be used concurrently with the permanent subdivision sign referred to in (D) above. , For multiple-family and group dwellings: Identification signs, not to exceed nine (9) square feet in sign area. Such signs shall indicate nothing more than the name and address of the premises and name of the management. Such signs shall be attached flush with the principal building and, if illuminated, shall be indirectly illuminated only. Permanent church, school or other public building bulletin board or identification signs, including manually-operated, changeable-copy signs not to exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in sign area. Such signs may be illuminated or non-illuminated and shall be located no closer than fifteen feet (15”) from the property line of the street to which the sign is directed. _ 124  8. Signs permitted in planned residential districts shall be determined during the site plan review process. NOTE: Billboards, portable signs and signs containing animated, traveling or flashing lights are prohibited in all residential zone districts of the City of Fultondale. Section 3.0 Signs Permitted In the B-1 Neighborhood Business District Permanent free-standing, on-premise, pole-mounted or ground-mounted Sign, limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage of a street of a lot, regardless of the number of businesses located on the lot. These may include either: Le A permanent, on premise, free-standing, pole-mounted sign, illuminated or non-illuminated, provided such sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in sign face area. Such sign shall not exceed a maximum height of thirty-five feet: (35°) from the ground level to the highest point on the sign. In addition, such signs shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10’) from the ground level to the lowest point on the sign and such sign shall be located no closer than fifteen feet (15°) from the edge of the property line. However, notwithstanding any of the above requirements, no such sign shall, at any time, be located on public right-of-way. See typical sign type below. PERMANENT FREE STANDING, POLE MOUNTED SiG! A permanent, on-premise, ground sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated which may include a masonry wall, landscaping and similar features or materials. Such sign shall not exceed forty-eight (48) square feet in sign face area and fifteen feet (15°) in height measured from the ground level to the highest point of the sign. Such sign shall be located no closer than fifteen feet (15 “) from the property line. However, notwithstanding any of the above, ground signs shall at no time be placed on public right-of-way. See typical illustration of Sign type below. TYPICAL GROUND SIGN 125  Attached, permanent on-premise signs, illuminated or non-illuminated. Each business shall be limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage which may consist of the following: is Wall or fascia sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated. Such sign shall be limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage, provided no other signs for such establishment are located on the same building wall. Such signs shall not extend above the roof line of the building upon which it is mounted and shall not project outward from the building more than twelve inches (12”). Wall signs may also be permitted which identify the rear entrance of the principal building, provided such sign is non-illuminated and does not exceed ten (10) square feet in sign area. See typical illustration of sign type below. ee eette WALL OR FASCIA SIGN es Ane CO eet   Projecting sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated, which is attached to the wall of the establishment it serves, provided no other signs for such establishment are located on the same building wall. Such sign shall not project outward more than thirty-six inches (36”) from the face of the building upon which it is mounted and shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10’) above the ground level or sidewalk to the lowest point on the sign. Such signs shall not project into public right-of-way nor exceed sixteen (16) square feet in sign area. See typical illustration of sign type below. PROJECTING SIGN = v TTT) Roof Sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated, limited to one (1) such sign per Street frontage, per establishment. Each roof sign shall be located within a selected signable area. Signable wall area for a roof sign shall not extend beyond the dimensions of a mansard roof, penthouse or architectural etement on which the sign is located. See definition of Signable Wall Area. The vertical dimensions of signable wall area shall not exceed six feet (6’). The size of such signs shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the signable wall area. See typical illustration of sign type overleaf. 126  wg ee __y ROOF SIGN gee fats SV (as us E oa. ————__ ane ce 1     Signs Located In Shopping Centers and Unified Business Centers 1. There shall be an architectural harmony and unity of signs within a shopping center or unified business center on a property. Sign type, color scheme, size, and illumination within the site shall be coordinated and compatible with the architecture of the center. Ds Either a permanent, free-standing, pole-mounted, or ground Sign, illuminated or non-illuminated, shall be permitted to identify such shopping center or unified business center. In addition, wall or fascia signs for each establishment within the center shall be permitted, with all signs subject to the height, dimensional requirements and restrictions of Section 3.0, a-1, a-2 and b, as well as e. lle. 2 or e. 3. 3. Billboards are permitted in the B-1 Neighborhood Business District, subject to& provisions of Section 8.0. 4, Portable signs are permitted in the B-1 Neighborhood Business District, subject to the provisions of Section 9.0. 5. Marquees, canopies or fixed awnings are permitted, subject to the provisions of of the Standard Building Code, Chapter 22, § 2201.2 - 2201.6, or as may be amended. Section 4.0 Signs Permitted In the B-2 General Business District The following signs are permitted in the B-2 General Business District, subject to all specified requirements. Also, see Subsection 1.2, General Regulations Applying To All Signs and Subsection 1.4, Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions. ~ Permanent, free-standing, on-premise, pole-mounted or ground signs, limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage of a lot, regardless of the number of businesses on a lot. These may include either: 127  A permanent, pole-mounted, on-premise sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated. Such sign shall not exceed one hundred and fifty (150) square feet in sign face area. Such sign shall not exceed a maximum height of forty feet (40°) from the ground level to the highest point on the sign and shall maintain a minimum clearance of ten feet (10°) from the ground level to the lowest point on the sign. Such sign shall not be located closer than fifteen feet (15’) from the edge of the property line. However, notwithstanding any of the above, no sign shall at any time be placed on public right-of-way. See typical illustration of sign type below. WALL OR FASCIA SIGN etry | [i A permanent, on-premise ground sign, illuminated or non-illuminated. Such sign may include a masonry wall, landscaping and other similar features or materials. Such sign shall not exceed forty-eight (48) square feet in sign face area and fifteen (15°) feet in height measured from the ground level to the highest point on the sign. Such sign shall be located no closer than fifteen (15°) feet from the property line. However, notwithstanding any of the above, ground signs shall at no time be placed on public right-of-way. See typical illustration of Sign Type below. PROJECTING SIGN “s Vv LTTT] 128  In addition to either 1 or 2 above, attached, permanent, on-premise signs, illuminated or non-illuminated, each business shall be limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage and may consist of the following: 1, Wall or Fascia Sign, illuminated or non-illuminated. Such a sign shall be limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage, provided no other wall signs for such establishment are located on the same building wall. Such sign(s) shall not extend above the roof line of a building upon which it is mounted and shall not project outward from the building more than twelve inches (12“). Wall signs may also be permitted which identify the rear entrance of the principal building, provided such sign is non-illuminated and does not exceed (10) square feet in sign area. See typical illustration — of sign type below. Projecting Sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated, which is attached to the wall of the establishment it serves, provided no other signs for such establishment are located on the same building wall. Such sign shall not project outward more than thirty-six inches (36”) from the face of the building upon which it is mounted and shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10°) above the ground level or sidewalk to the lowest point on the sign. Such signs shall not project outward more than thirty-six inches (36) from the face of the building upon which it is mounted and shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10’) above the ground level or sidewalk to the lowest point on the sign. Such signs shall not project into public right-of-way nor exceed sixteen (16) square feet in sign area. See typical illustration of sign type below. PROJECTING SIGN  129   NOTE: Roof Sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated, is limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage, per establishment. Each roof sign shall be located within a selected signable area. Signable wall area for a roof sign shall not extend beyond the dimensions of a mansard roof, penthouse or architectural element on which the sign is located. See definition of Signable Wall Area. The vertical dimensions of signable wall area shall not exceed six feet (6). The size of such signs shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the signable wall area. See typical illustration of sign type below. we A y ROOF SIGN   Billboards are permitted in the B-2 General Business District, subject to the provisions of Section 8.0. Portable signs are permitted in the B-2 General Business District, subject to the provisions of Section 9.0. Marquees, canopies, or fixed awnings are permitted, subject to the provisions of of the Standard Building Code, Chapter 22, § 2201.2 - 2201.6, or as may be amended. Permanent, free-standing, pole-mounted signs, located in close proximity to Interstate Highway 65 Interchanges, may be allowed to exceed the size and height restrictions imposed for such Signs in other areas as determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Section 5.0 Signs Permitted In The O-1 Office Building District Permanent, free-standing, on-premise pole or ground mounted signs, limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage of a lot, regardless of the number of businesses on a lot. These may include either: 1. A permanent, on-premise, pole-mounted sign, either illuminated or non- illuminated, provided such sign shall not exceed one hundred (t00) square feet in sign area and shall not exceed a maximum of thirty feet (30°) from the ground level to the highest point on the sign. In addition, such signs shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10°) from the ground level to the lowest point on the sign face and shall be located no closer than fifteen feet (15’) from the 130  property line. However, notwithstanding any of the above requirements, no such sign shall, at any time, be located, on public right-of way. See typical illustration of sign type below. —   eee PERMANENT FREE STANDING, POLE MOUNTED sic? 2. A permanent, on-premise, ground sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated, which may include a masonry wall, landscaping and similar features or materials. Such sign shall not exceed forty-eight (48) square feet in sign face area and shall be located no closer than fifteen feet (15°) from the property line. However, notwithstanding any of the above requirements, no ground sign shall be placed on public right-of-way. See typical illustration of Sign Type below. TYPICAL GROUND SIGN In addition to either 1 or 2 above, attached, permanent, on-premise signs, illuminated or non-illuminated. Each business shall be limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage, which would consist of either of the following: 1, Wall or Fascia Sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated. Such signs shall be limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage, provided no other signs for such establishment are located on the same wall. Such signs shall not extend above the roof line of the building upon which it is mounted and shall not project outward 131  from the building upon which it is mounted more than twelve inches (12%). Wall signs may also be permitted which identify the rear entrance of the principal building, provided such signs do not exceed ten (10) square feet in sign area. See typical illustration of sign type below. Tr] | fi Projecting Sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated, which are attached to the wall of the establishment it serves, provided no other signs for such establishment are located on the same building wall. Such sign shall not project outward more than thirty-six inches (36) from the face of the building upon which it is mounted and shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10°) above the ground level or sidewalk to the lowest point on the sign. Such signs shall not project into public right-of-way nor exceed sixteen (16) square feet in sign area. See typical illustration of Sign Type below. PROJECTING SIGN Roof Sign, illuminated or non-illuminated, limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage, per establishment. Each roof sign shall be located within a selected signable area. Signable wall area for a roof sign shall not extend beyond the dimensions of a mansard roof, penthouse or architectural element on which the sign is located. See definition of Signable Area. The vertical dimensions of signable wall area shall not exceed six feet (6’). The size of such signs shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the signable wall area. See typical illustration of sign type below. vw ROOF Ps \. An y SIGN   132  Signs In Unified Business Centers and Shopping Centers Ls There shall be an architectural harmony and unity of signs within a shopping center or unified business (office) center on a property. Sign type, color scheme, size and illumination within the site shall be coordinated and shall be compatible with the architecture of the center. Either a permanent, free-standing, pole-mounted or ground sign, illuminated or non-illuminated, shall be permitted to identify such shopping center or unified business center. In addition, wall or fascia signs for each establishment within the center shall be permitted, with all signs subject to the height, dimensional requirements and restrictions of Section 3.0. See typical illustration of Sign Types below. Signs In Unified Business Centers (Office Parks) 1. There shall be an architectural harmony and unity of signs within a Unified Business Center on a property. Sign type, size and illumination within the site shall be coordinated and compatible with the architecture of the center. Either a permanent, free-standing, pole-mounted or ground sign, illuminated or non-illuminated, shall be permitted to identify such unified business center. In addition, wall or fascia signs for each establishment within the establishment within the center may be permitted, with all signs subject to the height and dimensional requirements for such signs on page 129-130 of this Section. Billboards are prohibited in the CP Office Building, subject to the provisions of Section 9.0. Portable signs are permitted, subject to the provisions of Section 9.0. Marquees, canopies or fixed awnings, subject to the provisions of the Standard Building Code, Chapter 22, § 2201.2 - 2201.6 or as may be amended. 133  Section 6.0 Signs Permitted in the M-1 Light Industrial District and the M-2 General Industrial District The following signs are permitted in the M-1 and M-2 Industrial Districts, subject to specified requirements. Also see Subsection 1.2, General Regulations Applying To A Signs, and Subsection 1.3, Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions. Permanent, free-standing, on-premise, pole-mounted or ground signs, limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage of a lot, regardless of the number of businesses located on the lot. Unless otherwise stipulated, these may include either: 1. A permanent, on-premise, pole-mounted sign, either illuminated or non- illuminated, provided such sign shall not exceed one hundred and fifty (150) Square feet in sign area and shall not exceed a maximum height of forty feet (40°) from the ground level to the highest point on the sign. In addition, such sign shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10°) from the ground level to the lowest point on the sign face. Such sign shall be located no closer than fifteen feet (15°) from the property line. However, notwithstanding any of the above requirements, no such sign shall at any time be located on public right-of- way. See typical illustration of Sign Type below. PERMANENT FREE STANDING, POLE MOUNTED SIG! A permanent, on-premise ground sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated, which may include a masonry wall, landscaping and similar features or materials. Such sign shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in sign face area and shall be located no closer than fifteen feet (15°) from the property line. However, notwithstanding any of the above requirements, no ground sign-shall at any time be placed on public right-of-way. See typical illustration of Sign Type overleaf. 134    TYPICAL GROUND SIGN Wall or Fascia Sign, either illuminated or non-illuminated. Such signs shall be limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage. No other signs for such establishment shall be located on the same wall. Such sign(s) shall not extend above the roof line of the building upon which it is mounted and shall not project outward from the building more than twelve inches (12”). Wall signs may also be permitted which identify the rear entrance of the principal building, provided such sign is non-illuminated and does not exceed ten (10) square feet in sign area. See typical illustration of Sign Type below. STs Talbert coer Terres ee +f Deke coherent WALL OR FASCIA SIGN F | See oe See Set a, reir 5    fag —S  Signs In Unified Business Centers (Industrial Parks) 1 There shall be an architectural harmony and unity of signs within a Unified Business Center on a property. Sign type, size and illumination within the site shall be coordinated and compatible with the architecture of the center. Either a permanent, free-standing, pole-mounted or ground sign, illuminated or non-illuminated, shall be permitted to identify such unified business center (Industrial Park). In addition, wall or fascia signs for each establishment within the establishment within the park may be permitted, with all signs subject to the height and dimensional requirements for such signs in a-1, a-2 and b of this section. Billboards are permitted in the M-1 and M-2 Industrial Districts, subject to the provisions of Section 8.0. Portable signs are permitted in the M-1 and M-2 Industrial Districts, subject to the provisions of Section 9.0. 135  i Marquees, canopies or fixed awnings are permitted, subject to the provisions of of the Standard Building Code, Chapter 22, § 2201.1 - 2201.6, or as may be amended. Section 7.0 Signs Permitted In The AG Agricultural District The following signs are permitted in the AG Agricultural District: 1. a Those signs permitted in the Residential areas listed in Section 2.0; Signs customarily incidental to uses permitted in the Agricultural District. NOTE: Also, see Subsection 1.3, Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions, as well as Subsection 1.2, Regulations Pertaining To All Signs. Section 8.0 Billboard Regulations Billboards, where permitted, shall comply with the following regulations: L, No billboard shall be permitted on any lot which has two (2) or more on-premise signs pertaining to an establishment or establishments located on the same lot. No billboard shall be erected closer than one hundred feet (100°) from any residential zone district of the City. Any illumination of a billboard shall be of an indirect type and the beam of light shall be directed toward the sign face area and away from adjacent areas and thoroughfares. No flashing, traveling, animated or intermittent illumination of billboards shall be permitted. No portion of any billboard shall project over or be located on public property or public right-of-way. . Where permitted, no billboard shall be erected closer to another billboard or off- premises pole sign than the following prescribed distances: a. Interstate Highway 65 One thousand feet (1,000’) between sign structures located on the same side of the street, highway or thoroughfare. b. Federal-Aid Urban Five hundred feet (500’) between- sign structures located on the same side of the street, highway or thoroughfare. e. All Other Streets Seven hundred and fifty feet (750°) between sign Structures located on the same side of the street or highway. 136   Te No billboard shall exceed the following specified height requirements for specific types of thoroughfares or streets: a. Interstate Highways The maximum sign area shall not be more than eight hundred (800) square feet (including embellishments), nor exceed twenty-five feet (25°) in height for an elevated grade nor forty feet (40°) in all other locations. b. Federal Aid Urban The maximum sign area shall not be more than four hundred (400) square feet, (including embellishments), nor exceed twenty- five feet (25’) in height for an elevated grade nor forty feet (40’) in all other locations. CG: All Other Streets The maximum sign area shall not be more than three hundred (300) square feet in area (including embellishments), nor exceed  twenty-five feet (25°) in height for an elevated grade nor thirty feet (30°) in all other locations. d. Setbacks The setback of such signs shall be twenty feet (20°) from any front lot line and fifteen feet (15°) from any side or rear lot line. Such sign may be indirectly illuminated only. Section 9.0 Portable Sign Regulations Where permitted, portable signs shall conform with the following requirements and regulations: 1. ea No portable sign shall contain flashing or traveling lights. No portable sign shall contain lights that consist of those colors used by fire department vehicles, law enforcement vehicles, emergency medical vehicles or other official vehicles. This shall include the following colors: Red, Blue, Orange and Yellow. = All portable signs shall be set back at least twenty feet (20°) from the pavement edge of a public road or highway and in no case closer than ten feet (10°) from the property line. Moreover, no portable sign shall be permitted within thirty- five feet (35”) of the intersection of the pavement edge lines of two (2) roads, Streets, or right-of-way line of a railroad. Under no circumstances shall these signs be placed on public right-of-way. Portable signs shall be situated in such a manner which will not-impede with or interfere with motorists’ vision at points of ingress and egress. No portable sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square feet in area. 137   All portable signs shall be UL listed, when illuminated. No portable sign shall be permanently or temporarily mounted on any roof, pole, tree or other suspended structure. Section 10.0 Construction and Maintenance of Signs All signs shall comply with the following construction and maintenance requirements and regulations: 1, All signs shall conform with City Building and Technical Codes which provide — a comprehensive set of construction standards for signs. These specifications include wind loads, vibration resistance, seismic loads, acceptable supports, allowable stresses, materials and electrical wiring and components. All signs and all components thereof, including structural supports, shall be kept in a state of good repair. The area surrounding the base of any free-standing sign shall be kept clean of all trash, debris and undergrowth. No person may, for the purpose of increasing or enhancing the visibility of any sign, damage, trim, destroy or remove any trees, shrubs or other vegetation within any right-of-way (unless express written authorization is obtained from the agency having jurisdiction over the right-of-way) or on any area where landscaping is required by City regulations. Section 11.0 Required Permits, Fees And Inspections Permits Required 1, Except where this article explicitly exempts a sign, all signs erected shall require a sign permit issued by the Building Inspector. Whether a sign is exempt or not, an electrical permit shall be required for all illuminated signs. All outdoor advertising signs to be located within six hundred and sixty feet (660°) of the nearest edge of the right-of-way of a highway on the Interstate or Federal-Aid Primary Highway System shall file an application for a permit with the State of Alabama Highway Department as required by the Highway Beautification Act - Outdoor Advertising. ~ 138  Application Each application for a sign permit shall include the following: 1. Name, signature and address of the property owner or authorized agent of the property owner, if any, and sign contractor. ae Address of the property owner where the sign is to be erected. 3s Lot area, sign district, zoning district and principal land use(s) on the lot subject to the erection of the sign. 4, A complete description of the sign(s) to be erected, including, but not limited to: number, type, method of illumination, size, height, etc. ai A dimensioned sketch of the sign and a plot plan showing the location of each sign on the lot. 6. Other details sufficient for the Building Inspector to determine compliance with the requirements of this article, which may include a building elevation, survey or other drawings or documentation satisfactory to assess a permit for the sign. Ts Application fees. 11.1 Issuance Denial When a permit is denied by the Building Inspector, he or she shall given written notice to the proper applicant of the denial with a written statement of the reason or reasons for such denial. A copy of said statement shall be made as an attachment to the permit application. 11.2. Appeals Of Permit Denial Appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of Adjustment upon denial by the Building Inspector to issue a building permit. 11.3 Permit Fees Applications for permits shall be filed with the Building Inspector, together with a permit fee, as specified by the Building Inspector, for each sign in accordance with this Ordinance. Building Permit fees for signs shall be determined by the City in the same manner as other building permits issued by the City. 11.4 Inspection of Signs The person erecting, altering, relocating, enlarging or converting any sign shall notify the Building Inspector upon completion of the work for which permits are required and issued. See subsection 1.3, Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions. 139  11.5 Unlawful Signs Every sign in the City of Fultondale shall be maintained in good structural condition at all times. The building Inspector may inspect and shall have the authority to order the painting, repair, alteration, movement or removal of signs which become dilapidated or abandoned or which constitute a physical hazard to public safety. Any repair, painting, alteration, relocation or removal shall be at the sign Owners expense. See subsection 11.6. 11.6 Confiscation of Signs Located In Public Right-of-way Any sign installed or placed on a public right-of-way, except in conformance with the requirements of this Ordinance, shall be forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other remedies provided for under this Article, the City shall have the right to recover from the owner or person placing the sign the full costs of removal and disposal. Section 12.0 Abandoned Signs Except as may otherwise be provided for in this Article, any sign that is located on property which becomes vacant and is unoccupied for a time period of four (4) months or more, or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to a business temporarily suspended because of a change in ownership or management of such business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of nine (9) months or more. An abandoned sign is prohibited and shall be removed by the owner of the sign or owner of the premises. Section 13.0 Notification All notices mailed by the Building Inspector shall be sent by certified mail. Any time periods provided in this Section shall be deemed to commence on the date of the receipt of the certified mail. The notice shall be mailed.to the owner of the property on which the sign is located as shown on the latest available tax’maps, as well as the occupant which the sign serves. Any person or persons having an interest in the sign or the property may appeal the determination of the Building Inspector ordering removal or measures necessary to bring the sign into compliance with the provisions of the Ordinance by filing a written notice of appeal with the Fultondale Zoning Board of Adjustment within thirty (30) days after the date of the mailing of the notice. Section 14.0 Removal Of Signs ~ The Building Inspector shall cause to be removed any sign that endangers the public safety, such as: abandoned; dangerous; or materially, electrically or structurally defective sign; or a sign for which no permit has been issued. The Building Inspector shall prepare a notice 140  which shall describe in detail the nature of the violation or violations involved and which shall state that, if the sign is not removed or the violation is not corrected within thirty (30) days, this sign shall be removed in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance. However, the following shall apply to signs placed in public rights-of-way: any sign installed or placed on a public right-of-way, except in conformance with the requirements of this Ordinance, shall be forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other remedies provided under this Article, the City shall have the right to recover from the owner or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal as described in subsection 11.6. 141  ARTICLE XI LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS Section 1.0 Interpretation Of Uses In their interpretation and application the provisions of this Ordinance shall be considered minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, conveniences, order, prosperity and general welfare of the City. Where other Ordinances or regulations which may be adopted hereafter impose greater restrictions than those specified herein, compliance with such other ordinances or regulations is mandatory, this Ordinance shall not lower the restriction of plats, deeds or private contracts, if such are greater than the provisions of this Ordinance. Section 2.0 Savings Clause If any section, clause, provision or position of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section, clause, provision or portion of this Ordinance which is not in and of itself invalid or unconstitutional. Section 3.0 Repeal Of Existing Ordinances All zoning ordinances heretofore adopted are hereby repealed, provided, however, that nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to modify or in any manner permit, extend or enlarge any non-conforming property or improvement at the time of adoption of this Ordinance, but such non-conforming use shall continue to be subject to all restrictions and limitations existing at the time of adoption of this Ordinance related to such non-conforming use. No non- conforming use, existing at the time of adoption of this Ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended, or expanded, unless such use is changed to a use which will conform to the regulations of the district in which such property is located. Section 4.0 Effective Date This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its adoption, approval and publication, as provided by law. CERTIFICATION i, Jane L. Hazlegrove, City Clerk of the City of Fultondale, Alabama, hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance known as the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Fultondale was published by posting copies in (4) conspicuous places within aoe Gity limits of the City of Fultondale, Alabama on this the enh day of Lee , 15995. Said public places of posting are: 1) City Hall Lobby 2) AmSouth Bank, Fultondale Branch 3) Fultondale Publie Library 4) U.S. Post Office, Fultondale   ane L. Hazlegrov  In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and eee official seal of the City of Fultondale, Alabama, this the o?4 fday of EFFECTIVE DATE This ordinance (number 433) shall take effect and be enforced from and after the date of its adoption and publication required by law. ADOPTED and APPROVED this the aye day of byaal » 1995. Cohn 7 law pr N. McCain, Mayor ATTEST: (FP Liv Hazlegrpvg, lity Clerk  APPENDICES  VARIANCE APPLICATION CITY OF FULTONDALE, ALABAMA PART I, APPLICANT F ORM: Name of Applicant:  Mailing Address of Applicant:   Telephone Number:  Signature of Applicant:  PART II. PARCEL DATA: Owner of Record:   Mailing Address:   Address of Property for which Variance is requested:  Tax Map ID #:    Existing Land Use: Existing Zoning: PART III. REQUEST: Section of Ordinance on which Variance is requested   Nature of variance with reference to applicable zoning provisions: eee    PART IV. ENCLOSURES: (Check all required enclosures with this application) Written Justification for a variance Vicinity Map Plot Plan with variance noted or highlighted Public hearing notices Stamped legal-size envelopes addressed to adjacent property owners $50.00 Administrative fee  NOTICE: The completed application, including all required attachments, must be filed at least thirty (30) days before the Zoning Board of Adjustment hearing. The applicant must be present FOR OFFICE USE ONLY: Case # Date Received: Received By:  Scheduled Public Hearing Date:   Part I, Part I. APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE CITY OF FULTONDALE, ALABAMA Applicant Form: Name of Applicant:   Mailing Address:  Telephone:  Signature:  Parcel Data: Owner of Record:  Mailing Address:  Tax Map ID #  Existing Land Use  Part DI. Request: Part IV. Type of Special Exception Use Requested:  Enclosures (Check All Required Enclosures With This Application): A Vicinity map showing location of property. Plot Plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries and proposed Development Layout. Stamped legal-size envelopes addressed to adjacent property owners, as well as those property owners within five hundred feet (500°) of subject property. A $75.00 Administrative Fee, NOTICE: The completed application, including all required attachments must be filed at least thirty days (30) before the Fultondale apin ae ic Hearing. The applicant must be present at the hearing. 227 ing BeasdoF PE Re are ' . Ret yustene ls FOR OFFICE USE ONLY: Case # Date Received: eee sc Received By: . Scheduled public hearing date:       APPLICATION FOR REZONING FULTONDALE PLANNING COMMISSION 1, Date Application filed: Requested Hearing Date: 2. Applicant:  Phone:      Address:           3s Owner:  Phone:   Address:   4, Property Location:     Tax Map Parcel Number (s)     5% Acreage:  6. Existing Zoning Classification: Existing Land Use: ee a Proposed Zoning Classification: Proposed Land Use: ee Se 7 Check all required submissions with this application: Application Fee Reason for the Request Legal Description of the subject Property Vicinity Map Availability of Required Utilities Public Hearing Notices Site Plan Proffer of rezoning conditions (if any)  Signature of Applicant: Signature of Authorization By Owner:  FOR CITY USE ONLY: $150.00 Administrative fee received on by receipt # Scheduled Hearing Date: Application Submitted by: on: ee ee -   PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE FULTONDALE PLANNING COMMISSION Notice to:     Address:     You are hereby notified of a public hearing of the Fultondale Planning Commission to be held at the Fultondale City Hall at P.M. on: ,19 - The purpose of this public hearing is to receive public comments on an application submitted by:   for a proposed rezoning of land Owned by:     and located at the following street address or location:   The proposal consists of rezoning from the District to the ne District for the purpose of          A written protest of the Proposed amendment may be filed with the Secretary to the Planning Commission of the City of Fultondale one (1) day prior to the Proposed date of the public hearing for the consideration of the zoning classification amendment. The protest must be signed by the Property owner making such protest, and only one protest shall be allowed for each Separately-assessed unit of property. This notice is sent by certified mail on ,19 , Which is at least seven (7) days before the fixed hearing date, to all adjacent property owners as well as those property owners within five hundred feet (500°) [including those directly across a public right-of-way], as obtained by the applicant from the most recent records of the Jefferson County Tax Assessor. Secretary To The Planning Commission  CITY OF FULTONDALE ALABAMA PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE Notice to: Address: for approval of a Variance to: " ona acre parcel of land located at the following street address and location: Se This notice is sent at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled Zoning Board of Adjustment hearing to all adjacent property Owners (including those directly across a public right-of-way), as obtained by the applicant from the most recent records of the Jefferson County Tax Assessor. Chairman Date of Mailing  PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE FULTONDALE CITY COUNCIL Notice To:           Address:            You are hereby notified of a public hearing of the Fultondale City Council to be held at the Fultondale City Hall, at P.M. on: ,19 - The purpose of the public hearing is to receive public comments on an application submitted by:        for a proposed rezoning of land owned by:       and located at the following street address or location:         The proposed consists of rezoning from the District to the a ME District for the purpose of:                      A written protest of the Proposed amendment may be filed with the Secretary to the Planning Commission of the City of Fultondale one (1) day prior to the Proposed date of the public hearing for the consideration of the zoning classification amendment. The protest must be signed by the Property owner making such request, and only one protest shall be allowed for each Separately-assessed unit of property, This notice is sent by certified mail on ,19 , Which is at least seven (7) days before the fixed hearing date, to all adjacent property Owners, as well as those property owners within five hundred feet (500°) of the subject property (including those directly across public rights-of-way) as their names and addresses appear in the Jefferson County Tax Assessor's office, as determined by the applicant. ~ Mayor   ZONING ORDINANCE Of THE CITY OF ACWORTH, GEORGIA  As Amended 11.18.2021      The City of Acworth Department of Community Development Planning and Zoning Division 4415 Center Street Acworth, Georgia 30101  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 2 11/18/21   ARTICLE I TITLE, APPLICABILITY AND PURPOSE  SECTION 10 Title ..................................................................................................................................................... 6 SECTION 11 Applicability ....................................................................................................................................... 6 SECTION 12 Planning Goals and Purpose ............................................................................................................. 6 SECTION 13 Severability ......................................................................................................................................... 7 SECTION 14 Effective Date ..................................................................................................................................... 7 SECTION 15 Repeal of conflicting ordinances and validity of prior approvals and actions .............................. 7 SECTION 16 Development Projects Under Construction ..................................................................................... 7 ARTICLE II ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS .............................................................................................. 8 SECTION 20 Official Zoning Map ........................................................................................................................... 8 SECTION 21 Replacement of Official Zoning Map ............................................................................................... 8 TABLE A – CITY OF ACWORTH ZONING DISTRICTS ......................................................................................... 9 ARTICLE III APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS ............................................................................. 10 SECTION 30 Rules Governing Interpretation ...................................................................................................... 10 SECTION 31 Uniformity and Compliance ............................................................................................................ 10 SECTION 32 Compliance with District Regulations ............................................................................................ 10 SECTION 33 Lots Reduced Below Requirements ................................................................................................ 10 SECTION 34 Annexed Territory ........................................................................................................................... 10 SECTION 35 Special Land Use Permit Necessary................................................................................................ 10 ARTICLE IV NONCONFORMING USES ................................................................................................................. 11 SECTION 40 Intent ................................................................................................................................................. 11 SECTION 41 Continuance of Nonconforming Use ............................................................................................... 11 SECTION 42 Continuance of Building Occupied by Nonconforming Use ......................................................... 11 SECTION 43 Exceptions ......................................................................................................................................... 11 ARTICLE V DISTRICT STANDARDS AND PERMITTED USES .................................................................. 12 SECTION 50 District Standards ............................................................................................................................ 12 50.1 R-1, Single Family Residential ............................................................................................................................... 12 50.2 R-2, Single Family Residential ............................................................................................................................... 17 50.3 R-3, Single Family Residential ............................................................................................................................... 22 50.4 R-5, Mixed Single Family Residential (Note: This District is strictly in place for existing developments as shown on the most recently adopted Zoning Map. No new developments may be applied for under this category). ................................................................................................................................................................. 26 50.5 RC – Residential Conservation Planned Unit Development ............................................................................... 30 50.6 RM-6, Multi-Family Residential (6 units/acre) .................................................................................................... 38 50.7 RM-8, Multi-Family Residential (8 units/acre) .................................................................................................... 46 50.8 C-1, Neighborhood Retail Commercial ................................................................................................................. 53 50.9 C-2, Community Retail Commercial ..................................................................................................................... 59 50.10 OIT, Office Institution Transitional ............................................................................................................. 67 50.11 LRO, Low Rise Office ................................................................................................................................... 71 50.12 OP, Office Professional ................................................................................................................................. 74 50.13 LI, Light Industrial ........................................................................................................................................ 79 50.14 HI, Heavy Industrial ...................................................................................................................................... 85 50.15 MU, Mixed Use District ................................................................................................................................. 91 50.16 SLC, Senior Living Community ................................................................................................................... 98 50.17 RRX, Railroads and Railroad Crossings ................................................................................................... 103 50.18 PPF, Public Parks and Facilities................................................................................................................. 105 50.18 A/R-20, Single Family Residential .............................................................................................................. 107 50.20 A/R-30, North Single Family Residential ................................................................................................... 114 50.21 A/R-40, Single Family Residential .............................................................................................................. 121  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 3 11/18/21   50.22 A/RR, Rural Residential.............................................................................................................................. 128 50.23 A/R-80, Single Family Residential .............................................................................................................. 135 ARTICLE VI SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS ......................................................................... 142 SECTION 60 Sidewalk Requirements ................................................................................................................. 142 SECTION 61 Buildings ......................................................................................................................................... 142 SECTION 62 Fences and Walls ............................................................................................................................ 143 SECTION 63 Buffers ............................................................................................................................................. 143 SECTION 64 Fire Safety Requirements .............................................................................................................. 144 SECTION 65 Outside Storage .............................................................................................................................. 144 SECTION 66 Bulk Sanitation Containers, Portable Storage Units, Temporary Bulk Waste Containers, Donation Bins and Recycling Containers ........................................................................................................... 144 SECTION 67 Lots .................................................................................................................................................. 147 SECTION 68 Disabled Vehicle Lots ..................................................................................................................... 147 SECTION 69 Site Plan Approval and General Standards ................................................................................. 149 ARTICLE VII SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS ............................................................................... 157 SECTION 70 Special Land Use Permits .............................................................................................................. 157 TABLE B. SPECIAL LAND USE PERMITS ..................................................................................................... 157 SECTION 71 Community Residences .................................................................................................................. 158 SECTION 73 Extended Stay Facilities ................................................................................................................. 159 SECTION 74 Home Occupations ......................................................................................................................... 161 SECTION 75 Adult Entertainment ...................................................................................................................... 162 SECTION 76 Telecommunication Towers and Infrastructure.......................................................................... 162 TABLE C. MAXIMUM TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER HEIGHTS ..................................................... 164 ARTICLE VIII TRAFFIC AND PARKING STANDARDS ................................................................................. 170 SECTION 80 Purpose ........................................................................................................................................... 170 SECTION 81 Street Access and Curb Cuts ......................................................................................................... 170 SECTION 82 Street Improvements ...................................................................................................................... 170 SECTION 83 Corner Visibility Clearance .......................................................................................................... 170 SECTION 84 Private Streets ................................................................................................................................ 171 SECTION 85 Parking Spaces Required .............................................................................................................. 171 TABLE J. OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS .................................................................................... 172 SECTION 86 Required Surface Parking Standards .......................................................................................... 174 SECTION 87 Overflow Parking Standards ........................................................................................................ 176 SECTION 88 Parking in Residential Districts .................................................................................................... 176 SECTION 89 Off-Street Loading Requirements ................................................................................................ 176 TABLE K. OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS ................................................................................ 176 ARTICLE IX ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ............................................................................ 178 SECTION 90 Administration Authority .............................................................................................................. 178 SECTION 91 Administrative Variances .............................................................................................................. 178 SECTION 92 Review of Development permit Applications ............................................................................... 178 SECTION 93 Schedule of Fees, Charges and Expenses ..................................................................................... 179 SECTION 94 Building Inspector .......................................................................................................................... 179 SECTION 95 Appeals from Decisions of the Administrator.............................................................................. 179 SECTION 96 Remedies ......................................................................................................................................... 179 SECTION 97 Penalties for Violation ................................................................................................................... 180 SECTION 98 Certificate of Occupancy ............................................................................................................... 180 ARTICLE X APPEALS ....................................................................................................................................... 181 SECTION 100 General Requirements ................................................................................................................... 181  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 4 11/18/21   SECTION 101 Procedures ...................................................................................................................................... 181 SECTION 102 Public Hearings .............................................................................................................................. 181 SECTION 103 Assistance by Staff ......................................................................................................................... 182 ARTICLE XI VARIANCES AND SPECIAL LAND USE PERMITS............................................................... 183 SECTION 110 General Requirements ................................................................................................................... 183 SECTION 111 Procedures ...................................................................................................................................... 184 SECTION 112 Public Hearings .............................................................................................................................. 184 SECTION 113 Assistance by Staff ......................................................................................................................... 184 ARTICLE XII AMENDMENTS ............................................................................................................................ 185 SECTION 120 Generally ......................................................................................................................................... 185 SECTION 121 Application for Map Amendments ............................................................................................... 185 SECTION 122 Assistance by Staff ......................................................................................................................... 186 SECTION 123 Planning Commission Action ........................................................................................................ 187 SECTION 124 Board of Aldermen Action ............................................................................................................ 188 SECTION 125 Public Notification.......................................................................................................................... 189 SECTION 126 Home Rule Annexation .................................................................................................................. 189 SECTION 127 Legislative annexation ................................................................................................................... 190 ARTICLE XII DEFINITIONS ............................................................................................................................... 191 SECTION 130.1 Interpretation of Words ............................................................................................................... 191 SECTION 130.2 Definitions of Terms ...................................................................................................................... 191 CITY OF ACWORTH SUBDIVISION AND DEVLEOPMENT REGULATIONS ............................................... 205 Section 1. Purpose and Intent ................................................................................................................................. 205 Section 2. Conflicting Regulations .......................................................................................................................... 205 Section 3. Approval by Mayor and Board of Aldermen Required ...................................................................... 205 Section 4. Issuance of Building Permit ................................................................................................................... 205 Section 5. Definitions................................................................................................................................................ 205 Section 6. General Intent ......................................................................................................................................... 206 Section 7. Notice to Subdividers .............................................................................................................................. 206 Section 8. Pre-application Procedures .................................................................................................................... 206 Section 9. Procedure for Conditional Approval of Preliminary Plat ................................................................... 206 Section 10. Procedure for Approval of Final Plat ............................................................................................... 207 Section 11. Combinations and Re-plats ............................................................................................................... 207 Section 12. Small Subdivisions .............................................................................................................................. 207 Section 13. Boundary Line Revisions ................................................................................................................... 207 Section 14. Pre-Application Procedures .............................................................................................................. 207 Section 15. Plats and Data for Conditional Approval ......................................................................................... 208 Section 16. Preliminary Plat ................................................................................................................................. 209 Section 17. Other Preliminary Plans .................................................................................................................... 209 Section 18. Plats and Data for Final Approval .................................................................................................... 209 Section 19. Examples of Certificates .................................................................................................................... 211 Section 20. Conformity .......................................................................................................................................... 212 Section 21. Street Design ....................................................................................................................................... 212 Section 22. Alleys ................................................................................................................................................... 215 Section 23. Names .................................................................................................................................................. 215 Section 24. Blocks .................................................................................................................................................. 215 Section 25. Lots ...................................................................................................................................................... 215 Section 26. Easements ............................................................................................................................................ 216 Section 27. Drainage and Inundation ................................................................................................................... 216 Section 28. Monuments ......................................................................................................................................... 217 Section 29. Street and Related Improvements..................................................................................................... 217 Section 30. Sanitary Sewers .................................................................................................................................. 218 Section 31. Storm Drainage .................................................................................................................................. 218  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 5 11/18/21   Section 32. Water Supply System ......................................................................................................................... 219 Section 33. Coordination of Installation .............................................................................................................. 219 Section 34. Experimental Subdivisions ................................................................................................................ 219 Section 35. Conditions ........................................................................................................................................... 219 Section 36. Conflict with Other Laws .................................................................................................................. 219 Section 37. Penalties for Transferring Lot in Unapproved Subdivisions .......................................................... 219 Section 38. Final Subdivision Plat ........................................................................................................................ 220 Section 39. Severability ......................................................................................................................................... 220 Section 40. Repealer .............................................................................................................................................. 220 Section 41. Effective Date ...................................................................................................................................... 220 TREE PROTECTION AND LANDSCAPING .......................................................................................................... 221 A. Intent and Purpose ................................................................................................................................ 221 B. Applicability .......................................................................................................................................... 221 C. Definitions .............................................................................................................................................. 221 D. Tree Preservation and Replacement ................................................................................................... 222 TABLE A – MINIMUM TREE DENSITY CALCULATIONS ................................................................................ 223 TABLE B – DENSITY CREDIT FOR EXISTING TREES ...................................................................................... 223 TABLE C – DENSITY CREDIT FOR PLANTED TREES ...................................................................................... 224 E. Methods of Tree Protection .................................................................................................................. 225 F. Protective Barriers ................................................................................................................................ 225 G. Vehicle Use Areas .................................................................................................................................. 226 H. Encroachment ....................................................................................................................................... 226 I. Remediation ........................................................................................................................................... 227 J. Re-Vegetation ........................................................................................................................................ 227 K. General Landscaping Requirements ................................................................................................... 228 L. Acceptable Tree Species........................................................................................................................ 229 TABLE D – TREE SPECIES SELECTION LIST .................................................................................................... 230 M. Enforcement, Violations and Penalties ............................................................................................... 231 N. Appeal .................................................................................................................................................... 231  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 6 11/18/21   ARTICLE 1 TITLE, APPLICABILITY AND PURPOSE  SECTION 10 Title The title is the Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code of the City of Acworth, Year 2003. SECTION 11 Applicability These regulations shall apply to all present and future land development located within the incorporated area of Acworth, Georgia. The requirements contained herein are declared to be minimum requirements necessary to carry out the purpose of this article. This article shall regulate the height, number of stories, and the size of buildings and other structures; the percentage of lot that may be occupied; the size of yards and other open spaces; the density and distribution of population; the location and use of buildings and other structures: and the use, condition of use or occupancy of land and trade, industry, housing, recreation, transportation, agriculture or for any other purpose; creating districts for said purposes and establishing the boundaries thereof; defining certain terms used herein; providing for the method of administration, enforcement and amendment; providing penalties and resolutions and for other purposes. SECTION 12 Planning Goals and Purpose A. Promote orderly growth and development based on physical, social, and economic needs, environmental considerations, and public facilities and services. B. Provide for the development of adequate commercial facilities on both Citywide and neighborhood levels while retaining existing facilities. C. To achieve such timing, density, and distribution of land development and use as will prevent overloading public infrastructure systems for providing water supply, sewage disposal, drainage, sanitation, police and fire protection, and other public services. D. Promote a diversified housing market. Encourage, promote and facilitate high quality design, construction and landscape measures for new developments in a variety of ways, including flexible zoning and development regulations, coherent development standards, and innovative planning ideas. E. Establish appropriate planning procedures and innovative planning tools to guide growth and development. F. To encourage such distribution of population, land development and use as will facilitate the efficient and adequate provision of public services and facilities. G. Provide a diverse mix of residential types to serve the varying housing needs of Acworth’s existing and future population. To achieve such density, design, and distribution of housing as will protect and enhance residential property values and facilitate the provision of adequate housing for every citizen. H. Increase the viability of businesses in downtown Acworth. I. Promote innovative, environmentally sensitive design and development. J. To prevent flooding of improved property. K. Promote balanced growth and diversity in residential development, business, and industry. L. Continue to address the issues of pollution and its effect on natural resources (i.e., water, air, noise, visual, ground). M. Retain existing offices and professional businesses and provide for the development of suitable areas for business and professional offices. N. Retain existing compatible industry and preserve adequate land, services, and facilities for expansion and growth of light, clean industrial activities. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 7 11/18/21   O. Maximize the attractive character of Acworth by establishing aesthetically pleasing gateways and corridors into the City. SECTION 13 Severability It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Mayor and Board of Aldermen that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this article are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this article be declared unconstitutional or invalid, it shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this article. SECTION 14 Effective Date This article shall be effective immediately upon its adoption by the Mayor and Council. SECTION 15 Repeal of conflicting ordinances and validity of prior approvals and actions A. This is the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Acworth, and all other conflicting ordinances or resolutions are hereby repealed; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed as repealing or modifying the conditions of operation or conditions of site development accompanying those zoning approvals or use permits issued under previous zoning ordinances or resolutions; however, modification or repeal of these past conditions of approval may be accomplished as provided by this ordinance. B. All variances and exceptions heretofore granted shall remain in full force and effect and all terms, conditions and obligations imposed shall remain in full force and effect and be binding. Prior ordinances shall remain in effect insofar as required for the initiation of any proceedings against violations thereof and for the prosecution of any violations heretofore commenced. C. Notwithstanding anything contained herein and notwithstanding any zoning classification change, all previous special stipulations, conditions, restrictions, agreements and terms contained in prior zoning ordinances shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be amended by this document and shall carry forward to any new zoning classification and shall be binding upon said property. Prior ordinances shall remain in effect and shall remain as such special stipulations, conditions, restrictions, agreements and terms, even though the zoning category itself may be changed hereunder. SECTION 16 Development Projects Under Construction Nothing in this article shall require any change in the development or proposed use of properties which are legally under construction or for which a development plan or preliminary plat has been approved within 5 years of the effective date of this article and the development of which shall be commenced within one year after the effective date of this article. Actual construction is hereby defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that work shall be carried on diligently. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 8 11/18/21   ARTICLE II ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS  SECTION 20 Official Zoning Map A. The City is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the Official Zoning Map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as though fully set forth herein. A copy of the Official Zoning Map shall be maintained on file with the City Clerk for inspection and review by the public. B. The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map of the City of Acworth, Georgia” together with the date of the adoption of this article. C. If, in accordance with the provisions of this article and state law, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Board of Aldermen, with an entry on the Official Zoning Map signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk. D. No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this article. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this article and punishable as provided under this article. E. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map which shall be located in the office of the City Clerk shall be the final authority. SECTION 21 Replacement of Official Zoning Map In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the Board of Aldermen may by resolution adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede all previous such maps. The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors of omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof. Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 9 11/18/21   21.1 District Designations For the purpose of this ordinance, City of Acworth is hereby divided into thirteen (13) conventional zoning districts and two site-plan specific zoning district,  TABLE A – CITY OF ACWORTH ZONING DISTRICTS  SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL R-1 Detached single family residential, minimum lot size 16,000 sq. ft. R-2 Detached single family residential, minimum lot size 12,000 sq. ft. R-3 Detached single family residential, minimum lot size 9,000 sq. ft. R-5 Attached/Detached single family residential, maximum five (5) dwelling units/acre   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL RM-6 Multi-family residential, maximum six (6) dwelling units/acre RM-8 Multi-family residential, maximum eight (8) dwelling units/acre  COMMERCIAL C-1 Neighborhood retail commercial C-2 Community retail commercial OIT Office institutional transitional LRO Low-rise office OP Office professional INDUSTRIAL LI Light industrial HI Heavy industrial MIXED USE MU Mixed Use Development (Site-plan specific) PLANNED RESIDENTIAL RC Residential Conservation Planned Unit Development (Site-plan specific) SLC Senior Living Community (Site plan specific)  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 10 11/18/21   ARTICLE III APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS  SECTION 30 Rules Governing Interpretation Where uncertainty exists as to boundaries of any district shown on said map, the following rules shall apply: A. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the center line right-of-way of streets and alleys, land lot lines, militia district lines or lot lines, such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries. B. Where a district boundary divides a lot, the location of such boundaries, unless same are indicated by dimensions, shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on such maps. Split zoned properties shall no longer be permitted; however, those existing on the date of adoption of this article shall be allowed to continue as a nonconforming use. Property owners may request the City rezone the entire property to one of the existing zonings or subdivide the property along the district boundary provided all lot standards are achieved for each newly created lot. C. Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single ownership at the time of passage of this article, the Board of Aldermen may permit the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the district line into the remaining portion of the lot. SECTION 31 Uniformity and Compliance The regulations set by this article within each district shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and specifically, except as hereinafter provided. SECTION 32 Compliance with District Regulations No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located. SECTION 33 Lots Reduced Below Requirements No lot existing at the time of passage of this article shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Lots created after the effective date of this article shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this article. SECTION 34 Annexed Territory All territory which may hereafter be annexed into the City shall be classified as per the procedures outlined in Article XII (Amendments). SECTION 35 Special Land Use Permit Necessary Any person requesting a special exception from those permitted uses listed under any zoning district must comply with those regulations set forth in Section 70 and 110. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 11 11/18/21   ARTICLE IV NONCONFORMING USES  SECTION 40 Intent Within the districts established by this article or amendments that may later be adopted there may exist; lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before this article was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this article or such amendment. It is the intent of this article to permit these non-conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this article that non- conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. SECTION 41 Continuance of Nonconforming Use The lawful use of any building or structure or land existing at the time of enactment of this ordinance or amendment thereto may be continued, even though such use does not conform with the provisions of this article, except that the nonconforming use shall not be: A. Changed to another nonconforming use; B. Reestablished after discontinuance for a continuous period of 6 months or 18 months during any 3 year period (except when government action impedes access to the premises); C. Expanded, extended or enlarged in any manner which increase its non-conformity, but such structure may be altered to decrease its non-conformity. SECTION 42 Continuance of Building Occupied by Nonconforming Use A building occupied by a nonconforming use at the time of enactment of this ordinance or amendment thereto may be retained, except that it shall not be: A. Expanded, extended or enlarged in any manner which increase its non-conformity. B. Rebuilt, altered or repaired if such construction costs would exceed 50% of its replacement cost. SECTION 43 Exceptions A. Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, provided such construction costs do not exceed 50% of its replacement cost. B. In any district in which single family dwellings are permitted, a single family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record existing on June 5, 2003, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this article, only so long as it is used for a single family residence. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than these applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only through action of the Board of Aldermen. C. If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this article, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this article, and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this article, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or area below the requirements stated in this article. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 12 11/18/21   ARTICLE V DISTRICT STANDARDS AND PERMITTED USES  SECTION 50 District Standards For the purposes of this ordinance, the City of Acworth is divided into districts as follows:  50.1 R-1, Single Family Residential A. Purpose and Intent. The R-1 district is intended for low density single family detached housing and residentially compatible uses requiring large amounts of green space. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Single family detached dwellings. 2. Manufactured homes, provided: a) Roof pitch no less than 5:12 and finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in standard residential construction; b) Exterior siding shall consist of wood, vinyl, hardboard, stucco or brick comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding and use in standard residential construction; c) Must be placed and anchored on a permanent foundation, either slab or pier. All anchoring shall be subject to review, approval and inspections by the City’s building inspector. A masonry curtain wall designed to coordinate with the siding of the residence (ie: brick or stucco), shall be provided in lieu of skirting and shall only be pierced for the required ventilation and access; d) Utility meters for the home shall be mounted to the structure rather than on a utility pole or other structure. 3. Non-commercial horticulture and agriculture. 4. Livestock, poultry and non-commercial riding stables, provided: a) No livestock shall be kept on a lot containing less than 3 acres. b) All buildings used for animals shall be set back not less than 150 feet from all property lines. c) All animals shall be maintained at least 50 feet from any property line and shall have 5,000 square feet of fenced lot area not covered by the principal structure for each animal. 5. Non-commercial clubs or lodges. 6. Private parks and playgrounds. 7. Golf courses and driving ranges, provided: a) Any building or structure established in connection with such use must be set back no less than 100 feet from any property line, b) Lighting shall be established in such a way that no direct light shall cast over any property line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. 8. Group homes consisting of 6 or fewer individuals, inclusive of resident staff (see standards set forth in Section 71.2). 9. Personal care homes consisting of 6 or fewer individuals, inclusive of resident staff provided: a) The principal structure contains a residential facade architecturally similar to adjacent buildings. b) Such facilities obtain all necessary local and state licenses. c) The use is limited to the principal structure only. d) The maximum number of beds permitted shall be limited to one per 250 gross square feet of heated floor space within the principal structure. 10. Public buildings and utilities. 11. Neighborhood recreation centers or swimming pools, provided: a) Lighting shall be established in such a way that no direct light shall cast over any property  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 13 11/18/21   line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. b) Any building or structure established in connection with such use must be set back no less than 75 feet from any property line. c) All pools must adhere to the standards of the Standard Swimming Pool Code, as amended. 12. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 13. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Temporary or portable sawmill not to exceed a period of 6 months. Such mill may only process timber removed from the property on which it is located. Timber harvesting permits shall be required to meet all aspects of the Tree Protection Ordinance (see standards set forth in City of Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Ordinance). 2. Guest homes, garage apartments and servant quarters, provided: a) Such structure is located to the rear of the principal structure and no less than 20 feet from any property line and 10 feet from the principal building. b) Such structure has 5000 square feet of lot area dedicated to its use in addition to the district requirements for the principal use. c) No paying guests or tenants are housed. d) No other similar use or structure is located on the lot. e) The building’s height and/or area do not exceed that of the principal building. 3. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 4. Garage Sales, provided: a) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. b) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. c) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. d) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. 2. Cemeteries and mausoleums, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) A 25 foot undisturbed buffer be established around the perimeter of the use with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. c) All buildings must be set back at least 25 feet from the buffer. d) All graves be set back 10 feet from the buffer. e) No graves may be placed within any required setback. f) Funeral homes and mausoleums must have 20,000 square feet dedicated solely to their use. 3. Special Event Home, provided: a) Establishment must be on a minimum of a two (2) acre site. b) A maximum of 3,000 square feet may be dedicated to the reception floor area. c) Trash receptacles must be located in a rear or side yard and shall be screened on all sides. Garbage shall be collected only during the daytime hours of 9 am. And 5 pm. d) All applicants shall comply with the City of Acworth noise Ordinance. e) Such use is required to supply one (1) parking space for every three persons of capacity or  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 14 11/18/21   per every (10) ten square feet of gross reception floor area of the facility. The parking area is not required to be paved but must be an improved surface approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. Only 20 percent of the parking may be off-site. f) Capacity of the Special Events Home will be limited to three hundred (300) persons. g) There shall be no retail sale of food or alcohol. h) The commercial operations of the facility shall not operate between 12 am. And 9 am. i) The facility must be a single family home and can be mixed-use. j) Facility should only be located in appropriate areas of the City and not have a negative impact on surrounding properties. k) If the facility ceases to operate as a Special Events Home for a period of six (6) consecutive months, the property shall lose its approval as a Special Events Home. 4. Bed and Breakfast, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. E. Accessory Structures 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 4. No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 5. The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 6. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 7. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 8. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 15 11/18/21   structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 16 11/18/21   F. Use Limitations 1. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right- of-way. 3. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 4. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 5. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 6. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. G. Bulk and Area Regulations Minimum Lot Size: 16,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 100 ft./80 ft. for a cul-de-sac Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Minimum Floor Area: 2,000 sq. ft. Maximum Lot Coverage: 25% Maximum Impervious Surface: 35% Front Setback (arterial): 40 ft. Front Setback (other): 30 ft. Side Setback (major): 30 ft. Side Setback (minor): 15 ft. Rear Setback: 50 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 17 11/18/21   50.2 R-2, Single Family Residential A. Purpose and Intent. The R-2 district is intended for medium density single family detached housing and residentially compatible uses requiring large amounts of green space. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Single family detached dwellings. 2. Private parks and playgrounds. 3. Group homes consisting of six or fewer individuals, inclusive of resident staff (see standards set forth in Section 71.2). 4. Public buildings and utilities. 5. Neighborhood recreation centers or swimming pools, provided: a) Lighting shall be established in such a way that no direct light shall cast over any property line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. b) Any building or structure established in connection with such use must be set back no less than 75 feet from any property line. c) All pools must adhere to the standards of the Standard Swimming Pool Code, as amended. 6. Personal care homes consisting of six or fewer individuals, inclusive of resident staff provided: a) The principal structure contains a residential facade architecturally similar to adjacent buildings. b) Such facilities obtain all necessary local and state licenses. c) The use is limited to the principal structure only. d) The maximum number of beds permitted shall be limited to one per 250 gross square feet of heated floor space within the principal structure. 7. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 8. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Guest homes, garage apartments and servant quarters, provided: a) Such structure is located to the rear of the principal structure and no less than 20 feet from any property line and 10 feet from the principal building. b) Such structure has 5000 square feet of lot area dedicated to its use in addition to the district requirements for the principal use. c) No paying guests or tenants are housed. d) No other similar use or structure is located on the lot. e) The building’s height and/or area do not exceed that of the principal building. 2. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 3. Garage Sales, provided: a) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. b) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. c) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. d) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 18 11/18/21   for single family residential purposes. 2. Cemeteries and mausoleums, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) A 25 foot undisturbed buffer be established around the perimeter of the use with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. c) All buildings must be set back at least 25 feet from the buffer. d) All graves be set back 10 feet from the buffer. e) No graves may be placed within any required setback. f) Funeral homes and mausoleums must have 20,000 square feet dedicated solely to their use. 3. Special Event Home, provided: a) Establishment must be on a minimum of a two (2) acre site. b) A maximum of 3,000 square feet may be dedicated to the reception floor area. c) Trash receptacles must be located in a rear or side yard and shall be screened on all sides. Garbage shall be collected only during the daytime hours of 9 am. And 5 pm. d) All applicants shall comply with the City of Acworth noise Ordinance. e) Such use is required to supply one (1) parking space for every three persons of capacity or per every (10) ten square feet of gross reception floor area of the facility. The parking area is not required to be paved but must be an improved surface approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. Only 20 percent of the parking may be off-site. f) Capacity of the Special Events Home will be limited to three hundred (300) persons. g) There shall be no retail sale of food or alcohol. h) The commercial operations of the facility shall not operate between 12 am. And 9 am. i) The facility must be a single family home and can be mixed-use. j) Facility should only be located in appropriate areas of the City and not have a negative impact on surrounding properties. k) If the facility ceases to operate as a Special Events Home for a period of six (6) consecutive months, the property shall lose its approval as a Special Events Home. 4. Bed and Breakfasts, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 19 11/18/21   Accessory Structures 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 4. No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 5. The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 6. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 7. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 8. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: 1) Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. 2) Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 20 11/18/21     3) All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations 1. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right- of-way. Installation of more than one satellite dish per structure requires prior approval from Planning and Zoning staff. 3. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 4. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 5. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 6. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. G. Bulk and Area Regulations Minimum Lot Size: 12,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 80 ft./65 ft. for a cul-de-sac Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Minimum Floor Area: 1,800 sq. ft. Maximum Building Coverage: 25% Maximum Impervious Surface: 35% Front Setback (arterial): 40 ft.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 21 11/18/21   Front Setback (other): 30 ft. Side Setback (major): 30 ft. Side Setback (minor): 10 ft. Rear Setback: 40 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 22 11/18/21   50.3 R-3, Single Family Residential A. Purpose and Intent. The R-3 district is intended for medium density single family detached housing and residentially compatible uses requiring large amounts of green space. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Single family detached dwellings. 2. Private parks and playgrounds. 3. Group homes consisting of 6 or fewer individuals, inclusive of resident staff (see standards set forth in Section 71.2). 4. Public buildings and utilities. 5. Neighborhood recreation centers or swimming pools, provided: a) Lighting shall be established in such a way that no direct light shall cast over any property line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. b) Any building or structure established in connection with such use must be set back no less than 75 feet from any property line. c) All pools must adhere to the standards of the Standard Swimming Pool Code, as amended. 6. Personal care homes consisting of six or fewer individuals, inclusive of resident staff provided: a) The principal structure contains a residential facade architecturally similar to adjacent buildings. b) Such facilities obtain all necessary local and state licenses. c) The use is limited to the principal structure only. d) The maximum number of beds permitted shall be limited to one per 250 gross square feet of heated floor space within the principal structure. e) Signage is limited to one non-illuminated wall sign no greater than 6 square feet and is permitted through the Zoning Administrator. 7. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 8. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Guest homes, garage apartments and servant quarters, provided: a) Such structure is located to the rear of the principal structure and no less than 20 feet from any property line and 10 feet from the principal building. b) Such structure has 5000 square feet of lot area dedicated to its use in addition to the district requirements for the principal use. c) No paying guests or tenants are housed. d) No other similar use or structure is located on the lot. e) The building’s height and/or area do not exceed that of the principal building. 2. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 3. Garage Sales, provided: a) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. b) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. c) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. d) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 23 11/18/21   in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. 2. Cemeteries and mausoleums, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 10 acres. b) A 25 foot undisturbed buffer be established around the perimeter of the use with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. c) All buildings must be set back at least 25 feet from the buffer. d) All graves be set back 10 feet from the buffer. e) No graves may be placed within any required setback. f) Funeral homes and mausoleums must have 20,000 square feet dedicated solely to their use. 3. Bed and Breakfast, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. E. Accessory Structures 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 4. No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 5. The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 6. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 7. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 8. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 24 11/18/21   structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 25 11/18/21   F. Use Limitations 1. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right- of-way. Installation of more than one satellite dish per structure requires prior approval from Planning and Zoning staff. 3. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 4. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 5. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 6. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. G. Bulk and Area Regulations Minimum Lot Size: 9,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 70 ft./60 ft. for a cul-de-sac Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Minimum Floor Area: 1,600 sq. ft. Maximum Building Coverage: 30% Maximum Impervious Surface: 40% Front Setback (arterial): 40 ft. Front Setback (other): 25 ft. Side Setback (major): 25 ft. Side Setback (minor): 10 ft. Rear Setback: 30 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 26 11/18/21   50.4 R-5, Mixed Single Family Residential (Note: This District is strictly in place for existing developments as shown on the most recently adopted Zoning Map. No new developments may be applied for under this category). A. Purpose and Intent. The R-5 district is intended to provide suitable areas for single family attached and detached housing at medium densities. These districts may also serve as transitional zones between light commercial/office uses and areas reserved for lower density single family uses. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Single family detached dwellings 2. Duplexes and triplexes 3. Condominiums, provided: a) Maximum Density: 5 units per acre b) Minimum floor area: 1,500 square feet per unit c) Homeowners association required for maintenance of common areas and amenities. 4. Private parks and playgrounds 5. Public buildings and utilities 6. Neighborhood recreation centers or swimming pools, provided: a) Lighting shall be established in such a way that no direct light shall cast over any property line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. b) Any building or structure established in connection with such use must be set back no less than 75 feet from any property line. c) All pools must adhere to the standards of the Standard Swimming Pool Code, as amended. 7. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 8. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 2. Garage Sales, provided: a) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. b) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. c) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. d) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Bed and Breakfast, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 27 11/18/21   g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. 2. Townhomes meeting the standards in Section 77. E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 4. No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 5. The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 6. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 7. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 8. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 28 11/18/21   dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right- of-way. Installation of more than one satellite dish per structure requires prior approval from Planning and Zoning staff. 3. Minimum parking provided shall be two spaces per dwelling unit. Such space shall be provided not more than 150 feet from the dwelling unit. 4. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 5. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 6. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 7. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 29 11/18/21   this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Lot Size: 12,000 sq. ft. – duplexes 18,000 sq. ft. – triplexes 6,000 sq. ft. – single family detached dwellings 5,000 sq. ft. – fee simple town homes Maximum Density: 5 dwelling units per acre Minimum Lot Width: 45 ft. – single family 25 ft. – town homes 100 ft. – duplexes and triplexes Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Minimum Floor Area/unit: 1,600 sq. ft. – single family detached dwellings 1,500 sq. ft. – fee simple town homes 1,000 sq. ft. per unit – duplexes and triplexes Maximum Lot Coverage: 35% Maximum Impervious Surface: 40% Front Setback (arterial): 30 ft. Front Setback (other): 20 ft. Side Setback (major): 25 ft. (not applicable with common walls) Side Setback (minor): Five (5) feet with 20 ft. spacing between buildings, 0 ft. for attached units) Rear Setback: 30 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. When an R-5 district over two acres in size abuts an “R” district, a 30 foot greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height (finished side to the exterior). I. Previous Conditions/stipulations. The subdivisions placed in the R-5 district were approved site-plan specific. All previous stipulations for subdivisions in this district including site plan layout requirement, lot size and averages, architectural approvals, etc. shall continue to apply. (See Section 15) A listing of the stipulations for these subdivisions shall reside in the office of the Zoning Administrator. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 30 11/18/21   50.5 RC – Residential Conservation Planned Unit Development A. Purpose and Intent. The RC district is intended to provide opportunities for development that permits flexibility of design in order to promote environmentally sensitive and efficient uses of the land. To achieve this, the RC district provides suitable areas for single family attached and detached housing at medium densities in exchange for a minimum amount of greenspace/openspace. These districts may also serve as transitional zones between light commercial/office uses and areas reserved for lower density single family uses. This district is intended to be site-plan specific and shall require submission of a detailed site-plan at the time of rezoning application. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Duplexes 2. Triplexes 3. Private parks and playgrounds 4. Public buildings and utilities 5. Neighborhood recreation centers or swimming pools, provided: a) Lighting shall be established in such a way that no direct light shall cast over any property line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. b) Any building or structure established in connection with such use must be set back no less than 75 feet from any property line. c) All pools must adhere to the standards of the Standard Swimming Pool Code, as amended. 6. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 7. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 2. Garage Sales, provided: a) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. b) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. c) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. d) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Single-Family Residential, when part of a mixed-residential development. 2. Condominiums, provided: a) Maximum Density: 5 units per acre b) Minimum floor area: 1,500 square feet per unit c) Homeowners association required for maintenance of common areas and amenities. 3. Townhomes meeting the standards in Section 77. 4. Cottage Style Development, provided: a) Minimum lot dimension: 45’ x 120’; b) Of the 30 percent greenspace required for RC developments, an area amounting to no less than 15 percent of the development’s buildable total land area shall be designed to accommodate its use for passive or active recreation; c) Minimum unit size 1,600 square feet; d) Maximum unit size 2,500 square feet; e) Maximum unit height 1½ story; f) Setbacks: Front: 20 feet (with the garage portion of the home no less than twenty-five (25) feet from the back of the curb)  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 31 11/18/21   Minor Side: Minimum 10 feet between structures Major Side: 25 feet Rear: 20 feet Maximum Lot Coverage 40% Maximum Impervious Surface Area per lot 60 % g) Submittal of a Design and Use Plan including, but not limited to: 1. Architectural upgrades such as carriage style garage doors, upgraded exterior building materials such as stone, brick or other comparable material, doors, windows and patios; 2. Renderings and/or narrative descriptions of the interior features of buildings, including the floor area of units, floor plan, ceiling height, flooring materials, kitchen and bath features, and information on trim/finish details; 3. A plan for the development and long-term maintenance of all common areas and facilities (including private streets and parking areas, detention areas, green spaces); 4. The proposed documents for the homeowners or condominium association, which shall include covenants related to maintenance of units, dues and fees, exterior storage and appearance, restrictions on rental occupancy. All such documents shall be reviewed and approved by the City. E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 4. No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 5. The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 6. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 7. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 8. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 32 11/18/21   c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 33 11/18/21   F. Use Limitations. 1. Developments in this district shall be site-plan specific. Each plan shall require the submission of a site plan, architectural building elevations, proposed tree-save and grading plan, 2. Any significant changes including but not limited to additional units, overall layout, façade elevation changes, shall require a zoning amendment. 3. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 4. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right- of-way. Installation of more than one satellite dish per structure requires prior approval from Planning and Zoning staff. 5. Minimum parking provided shall be two spaces per dwelling unit. Such space shall be provided not more than 150 feet from the dwelling unit. 6. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 7. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 8. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 9. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Lot Size: 9,000 sq. ft. – single family detached 12,000 sq. ft. – duplexes 18,000 sq. ft. – triplexes 5,000 sq. ft. dedicated per unit (note: actual size of fee simple lots will vary) – fee simple town homes (with no more than 6 units per building) Maximum Density: 5 dwelling units per acre Minimum Tract Size: 5 acres Minimum Lot Width: 55 ft. – single family 25 ft. – town homes 100 ft. – duplexes and triplexes Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Minimum Floor Area/unit: 2,000 sq. ft. – single family 1,000 sq. ft. per unit – duplexes and triplexes Maximum Lot Coverage: 35% Maximum Impervious Surface: 40% Front Setback (arterial): 30 ft. Front Setback (other): 20 ft.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 34 11/18/21   Side Setback (major): 25 ft. (not applicable with common walls) Side Setback (minor): 5ft. with 20 ft. spacing between buildings (0 ft. for attached units) Rear Setback: 30 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. When a RC district abuts an “R” district, a 30 foot buffer shall be established. Such buffer shall be undisturbed where practical or enhanced where devoid of significant vegetation and must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height (finished side to the exterior). I. Greenspace Requirement. 1. For every RC development, a minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the gross tract area shall be required greenspace unless otherwise specified in this ordinance. 2. Where applicable, the greenspace shall remain primarily undisturbed unless otherwise shown and approved in the greenspace management plan. 3. For housing density calculation purposes, the maximum number of lots shall be determined by dividing the area of the tract of land by the minimum lot size, as described in the bulk and area requirements section of this article. In making this calculation, the following shall not be included in the total area of the parcel: a) 100 year floodplain, b) Floodway, c) Wetlands-as defined by the US Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act, d) Retention/detention areas, utility areas, e) Slopes over 25% of at least 5,000 square feet contiguous area, f) Road right-of-ways and areas reserved for utilities. 4. The following are considered Primary Conservation Areas shall be included in the required greenspace, unless the Applicant demonstrates that with this provision would constitute an unusual hardship and be counter to the purposes of this article: a) 100 year floodplain, b) All required stream bank buffer zones, c) Floodway, d) Wetlands-as defined by the US Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act, e) Populations of endangered or threatened species, or habitat for such species, f) Archaeological sites, cemeteries, and burial grounds, g) Retention/detention areas, utility areas, h) Slopes over 25% of at least 5,000 square feet contiguous area, 5. The following are considered Secondary Conservation Areas and are required to be included within the required green space to the maximum extent feasible: a) Important historic sites, b) Existing healthy, native forests of at least one acre contiguous area, c) Individual existing healthy trees greater than eight (8) inches in caliper, as measured from their outermost drip line, d) Other significant natural features and scenic view sheds such as ridge lines, peaks and rock outcroppings, particularly those that can be seen from public roads, e) Prime agricultural lands of at least five acres contiguous area, f) Existing trails that connect the tract to neighboring areas. 6. The required greenspace must be organized and designed so that at least 75% of the minimum required green space shall be in a contiguous tract no less than twenty (20) feet in width at its narrowest point. The required greenspace shall adjoin any neighboring areas of green space, other protected areas, and non-protected natural areas that would be candidates for inclusion as part of a  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 35 11/18/21   future area of protected greenspace. Tree density calculations shall be provided for the protected greenspace based on the acreage of dedicated greenspace utilizing the formula specified within the Tree Protection and Landscaping Ordinance. This calculation shall be made separate of the required tree density of the remainder of the development. 7. Above ground utility rights-of-way and small areas of impervious surface (no more than 400 square feet in area) may be included within the protected green space, but cannot be counted towards the thirty (30%) percent minimum area requirement (exception: historic structures and pedestrian or non- motorized, except for those allowed by ADA, trails may be counted). Large areas of impervious surface shall be excluded from the minimum required green space. 8. The required greenspace shall be directly accessible to the largest practicable number of lots within the subdivision. Non-adjoining lots shall be provided with safe, convenient access to the green space. 9. Green Space Management Plan Required. An green space management plan (“Plan”) shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a land disturbance permit. This plan shall, at a minimum, that consists of the following: a) allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the green space and any facilities located thereon, including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long- term capital improvements, b) estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the green space and outlines the means by which such funding will be obtained or provided, c) provides that any changes to the Plan be approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, d) Provides for enforcement of the Plan. 10. Instrument of Permanent Protection Required. An instrument of permanent protection, such as a conservation easement or permanent restrictive covenant shall be placed on the required greenspace property concurrent with the issuance of a land disturbance permit. J. Permitted/Prohibited Uses of Greenspace. 1. Permitted uses of greenspace: a) Conservation of natural, archeological or historical resources, b) Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game preserves, or similar conservation- oriented areas, c) Walking or non-motorized trails, except for those allowed by ADA, d) Passive recreation areas, e) Active recreation areas, provided that they are limited to no more than ten (10) percent of the total minimum required greenspace, unless otherwise stated in this ordinance, and are not located within Primary Conservation Areas. Active recreation areas may include impervious surfaces. Active recreation areas in excess of this limit must be located outside of the protected green space, f) Agriculture, horticulture, silviculture, or pasture uses, provided that all applicable best management practices are used to minimize environmental impacts, and such activities are not conducted within Primary Conservation Areas, g) Nonstructural stormwater management practices, h) Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility lines, i) Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes of this article. 2. Prohibited uses of greenspace: a) Golf courses, b) Roads, parking lots and impervious surfaces, except as specifically authorized in the previous sections, c) Agricultural and forestry activities not conducted according to accepted best management practices,  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 36 11/18/21   d) Other activities as determined by the applicant and recorded on the legal instrument providing for permanent protection. K. Ownership and Management of Greenspace. 1. The applicant must identify the owner of the green space and facilities located thereon. If a Homeowner’s Association is the owner, membership in the association is mandatory and automatic for all homeowners of the subdivision and their successors. If a Homeowners Association is the owner, the Homeowners’ Association shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members. The responsibility for maintaining the green space and any facilities located thereon shall be borne by the owner. 2. In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the green space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the City of Acworth may assume responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the owner, Homeowner’s Association, or to the individual property owners that make up the Homeowner’s Association, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all subdivision properties. L. Legal Instrument for Permanent Protection. 1. The green space shall be protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument that is recorded with the deed. The instrument shall be one of the following: a) A permanent conservation easement in favor of either: (i) A land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-profit organization with legal authority to accept such easements. The organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence and the conveyance instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or (ii) A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals compatible with the purposes of this ordinance. b) If the entity accepting the easement is not the City, then a third right of enforcement favoring the City shall be included in the easement, c) A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in favor of a governmental entity; or d) An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, if approved by the City of Acworth. 2. The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on the use of the green space. These restrictions shall include all restrictions contained in this article, as well as any further restrictions the Applicant chooses to place on the use of the green space  M. Site Plan. A site analysis map shall be required concurrent with the submission of a site concept plan. The purpose of the site analysis map is to ensure that the important site features have been adequately identified prior to the creation of the site design, and that the proposed green space will meet the requirements of this article. The required conceptual site plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include, at a minimum, the following features: a) Property boundaries; b) All streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands and other hydrologic features; c) Topographic contours of no less than 10-foot intervals; d) Complete chart of calculations illustrating full compliance with regulations; e) All Primary and Secondary Conservation Areas labeled by type; f) General vegetation characteristics; g) General soil types; h) The planned location of protected greenspace;  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 37 11/18/21   i) Existing roads and structures; j) Potential connections with existing greenspace and trails. k) Proposed roads, alleys, sidewalks, trails l) Lot configuration/layout, including setback lines m) Proposed detention areas n) Proposed amenity areas o) Example building footprint layout p) Surrounding property owners q) Zoning information (current and proposed) for the subject property and current zoning information for the surrounding parcels r) Estimated impervious surface calculation for the development s) Unit count and calculation of greenspace. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 38 11/18/21   50.6 RM-6, Multi-Family Residential (6 units/acre) A. Purpose and Intent. The RM-6 district is intended to provide suitable areas for multi-family housing designed in a compatible and complementary manner so as to function as a singular and integrated land use. This zoning district may serve as a transitional zone between commercial/office uses and residential districts of a lesser intensity. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Condominiums, provided: a. Maximum Density: 5 units per acre b. Minimum floor area: 1,500 square feet per unit c. Homeowners association required for maintenance of common areas and amenities. 2. Multi-family dwelling units (apartments). 3. Leasing office, clubhouse, gazebo or other structures related to apartment development. 4. Private parks and playgrounds. 5. Public buildings and utilities. 6. Group homes, limited to one bed per 250 gross square feet of heated building space. Operator must obtain all necessary state certifications. 7. Assisted living, personal care and retirement home facilities, provided: a) Such facilities must obtain all necessary state licenses and/or certifications. b) The maximum number of beds permitted shall be determined by multiplying the site’s acreage by the district’s density limitation and a factor of 1.5. Ex. A 2 acre site could include 24 beds [(2.0 acres) x (8 DUA) x (1.5) = 24] 8. Fraternity and sorority houses and residence halls. 9. Neighborhood recreation centers or swimming pools, provided: a) Lighting shall be established in such a way that no direct light shall cast over any property line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. b) Any building or structure established in connection with such use must be set back no less than 75 feet from any property line. c) All pools must adhere to the standards of the Standard Swimming Pool Code, as amended. 10. Rooming and boardinghouses. Maximum 7 beds per acre. 11. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 12. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. 1. Halfway houses (see standards set forth in Section 71.3). 2. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. d) Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers. 3. Townhomes meeting the standards in Section 77. 4. Cottage Style Development, provided:  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 39 11/18/21   a) Minimum lot dimension: 45’ x 120’; b) Green space to be provided within the development shall have a total area not less than 15% of the development’s total buildable land area. Said green space shall be designed to accommodate its use for passive or active recreation; c) Minimum unit size 1,600 square feet; d) Maximum unit size 2,000 square feet; e) Maximum unit height 1½ story; f) Setbacks: Front: 20 feet (with the garage portion of the home no less than twenty- five (25) feet from the back of the curb) Minor Side: Minimum 10 feet between structures Major Side: 25 feet Rear: 20 feet Maximum Lot Coverage 40% Maximum Impervious Surface Area per lot 60 % g) Submittal of a Design and Use Plan including, but not limited to: 1. Architectural upgrades such as carriage style garage doors, upgraded exterior building materials such as stone, brick or other comparable material, doors, windows and patios; 2. Renderings and/or narrative descriptions of the interior features of buildings, including the floor area of units, floor plan, ceiling height, flooring materials, kitchen and bath features, and information on trim/finish details; 3. A plan for the development and long-term maintenance of all common areas and facilities (including private streets and parking areas, detention areas, green spaces); 4. The proposed documents for the homeowners or condominium association, which shall include covenants related to maintenance of units, dues and fees, exterior storage and appearance, restrictions on rental occupancy. All such documents shall be reviewed and approved by the City. E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 4. No accessory structure may exceed the mean height of the principal building. 5. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 6. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 7. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems:  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 40 11/18/21   a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. All outside storage associated with non-residential uses must be stored in a side or rear yard and  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 41 11/18/21   screened from all streets and adjacent properties by an opaque fence no less than six feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. Buildings must be separated by at least 60 feet unless a side face is involved in which case the buildings shall be separated by no less than 40 feet. 3. No building may exceed 250 feet in length. 4. No unit or building may have direct access to an arterial street outside the development. 5. A recreation area must be provided at a ratio of one acre per 50 units (or a proportional percentage thereof) with a minimum of 10,000 sq. ft. provided. Such area may serve as green space and/or developed for recreational purposes such as pools or basketball and tennis courts. Non-passive recreational areas must be located in such a manner that at least 75% of the units are within 300 feet, as measured from building footprints. 6. Common on-site parking areas shall be located not more than 200 feet from the dwelling units served. No more than 25% of the required parking may be provided within the front yard or setback. 7. When over 50% of the required parking is provided underground, a density bonus of two dwelling units per acre shall be allowed. 8. Apartment complexes which convert to condominium use must file a new final plat and meet all requirements of the Public Works and Fire Departments. 10. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 11. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 12. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Tract Size: 2 acres Maximum Tract Size: 20 acres Maximum Density: 6 dwelling units per acre Minimum Tract Width: 100 ft. Maximum Building Height: 45 ft. Minimum Floor Area: 550 sq. ft. for an efficiency 650 sq. ft. for 1 bedroom unit 900 sq. ft. for 2 bedroom unit 1100 sq. ft. for 3 bedroom unit Maximum Building Coverage: 35% Maximum Impervious Surface: 55% Minimum Parking Required: 2 spaces per unit Front Setback (arterial): 50 ft. Front Setback (other): 40 ft. Side Setback (major): 40 ft. Side Setback (minor): 25 ft. Rear Setback: 50 ft.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 42 11/18/21   H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. When a RM-6 district abuts a single family residential district or use, a 40 foot greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer shall be undisturbed where practical or enhanced where devoid of significant vegetation and must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height (finished side to the exterior). I. Greenspace Requirement. 1. For every RM-6 development, forty percent (40%) of the gross tract area greenspace shall be required unless otherwise specified in this ordinance. 2. Where applicable, the greenspace shall remain primarily undisturbed unless otherwise shown and approved in the greenspace management plan. 3. For housing density calculation purposes, the maximum number of lots shall be determined by dividing the area of the tract of land by the minimum lot size, as described in the bulk and area requirements section of this article. In making this calculation, the following shall not be included in the total area of the parcel: a) 100 year floodplain, b) Floodway, c) Wetlands-as defined by the US Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act, d) Retention/detention areas, utility areas, e) Slopes over 25% of at least 5,000 square feet contiguous area, f) Road right-of-ways and areas reserved for utilities. 4. The following are considered Primary Conservation Areas shall be included in the required greenspace, unless the Applicant demonstrates that with this provision would constitute an unusual hardship and be counter to the purposes of this article: a) 100 year floodplain, b) All required stream bank buffer zones, c) Floodway, d) Wetlands-as defined by the US Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act, e) Populations of endangered or threatened species, or habitat for such species, f) Archaeological sites, cemeteries, and burial grounds, g) Retention/detention areas, utility areas, h) Slopes over 25% of at least 5,000 square feet contiguous area, 5. The following are considered Secondary Conservation Areas and are required to be included within the required greenspace to the maximum extent feasible: a) Important historic sites, b) Existing healthy, native forests of at least one acre contiguous area, c) Individual existing healthy trees greater than eight (8) inches in caliper, as measured from their outermost drip line, d) Other significant natural features and scenic view sheds such as ridge lines, peaks and rock outcroppings, particularly those that can be seen from public roads, Prime agricultural lands of at least five acres contiguous area, e) Existing trails that connect the tract to neighboring areas. 6. The required greenspace must be organized and designed so that at least 75% of the minimum required green space shall be in a contiguous tract no less than twenty (20) feet in width at its narrowest point. The required greenspace shall adjoin any neighboring areas of greenspace, other protected areas, and non-protected natural areas that would be candidates for inclusion as part of a future area of protected greenspace. Tree density calculations shall be provided for the protected greenspace based on the acreage of dedicated greenspace utilizing the formula specified within the  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 43 11/18/21   Tree Protection and Landscaping Ordinance. This calculation shall be made separate of the required tree density of the remainder of the development. 7. Above ground utility rights-of-way and small areas of impervious surface (no more than 400 square feet in area) may be included within the protected green space, but cannot be counted towards the forty (40%) percent minimum area requirement (exception: historic structures and pedestrian or non- motorized, except for those allowed by ADA, trails may be counted). Large areas of impervious surface shall be excluded from the minimum required greenspace. 8. The required greenspace shall be directly accessible to the largest practicable number of lots within the subdivision. Non-adjoining lots shall be provided with safe, convenient access to the green space. 9. Green Space Management Plan Required. An green space management plan (“Plan”) shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a land disturbance permit. This plan shall, at a minimum, that consists of the following: a) allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the green space and any facilities located thereon, including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital improvements, b) estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the green space and outlines the means by which such funding will be obtained or provided, c) provides that any changes to the Plan be approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, d) Provides for enforcement of the Plan. 10. Instrument of Permanent Protection Required. An instrument of permanent protection, such as a conservation easement or permanent restrictive covenant shall be placed on the required greenspace property concurrent with the issuance of a land disturbance permit. J. Permitted/Prohibited Uses of Greenspace. 1. Permitted uses of greenspace: a) Conservation of natural, archeological or historical resources, b) Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game preserves, or similar conservation-oriented areas, c) Walking or non-motorized trails, except for those allowed by ADA, d) Passive recreation areas, e) Active recreation areas, provided that they are limited to no more than ten (10) percent of the total minimum required greenspace, unless otherwise stated in this ordinance, and are not located within Primary Conservation Areas. Active recreation areas may include impervious surfaces. Active recreation areas in excess of this limit must be located outside of the protected green space, f) Agriculture, horticulture, silviculture, or pasture uses, provided that all applicable best management practices are used to minimize environmental impacts, and such activities are not conducted within Primary Conservation Areas, g) Nonstructural stormwater management practices, h) Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility lines, i) Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes of this article. 2. Prohibited uses of greenspace: a) Golf courses, b) Roads, parking lots and impervious surfaces, except as specifically authorized in the previous sections, c) Agricultural and forestry activities not conducted according to accepted best management practices, d) Other activities as determined by the applicant and recorded on the legal instrument providing for permanent protection. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 44 11/18/21   K. Ownership and Management of Greenspace. 1. The applicant must identify the owner of the greenspace and facilities located thereon. If a Homeowner’s Association is the owner, membership in the association is mandatory and automatic for all homeowners of the subdivision and their successors. If a Homeowners Association is the owner, the Homeowners’ Association shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members. The responsibility for maintaining the green space and any facilities located thereon shall be borne by the owner. 2. In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the Green Space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the City of Acworth may assume responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the owner, Homeowner’s Association, or to the individual property owners that make up the Homeowner’s Association, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all subdivision properties. L. Legal Instrument for Permanent Protection. 1. The green space shall be protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument that is recorded with the deed. The instrument shall be one of the following: a. A permanent conservation easement in favor of either: i. A land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-profit organization with legal authority to accept such easements. The organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence and the conveyance instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or ii. A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals compatible with the purposes of this ordinance. b. If the entity accepting the easement is not [the jurisdiction], then a third right of enforcement favoring the shall be included in the easement, c. A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in favor of a governmental entity; or; d. An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, if approved by the City. 2. The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on the use of the green space. These restrictions shall include all restrictions contained in this article, as well as any further restrictions the Applicant chooses to place on the use of the green space  M. Site Plan. A site analysis map shall be required concurrent with the submission of a site concept plan. The purpose of the site analysis map is to ensure that the important site features have been adequately identified prior to the creation of the site design, and that the proposed green space will meet the requirements of this article. The required conceptual site plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include, at a minimum, the following features: a) Property boundaries; b) All streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands and other hydrologic features; c) Topographic contours of no less than 10-foot intervals; d) Complete chart of calculations illustrating full compliance with regulations; e) All Primary and Secondary Conservation Areas labeled by type; f) General vegetation characteristics; g) General soil types; h) The planned location of protected greenspace; i) Existing roads and structures;  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 45 11/18/21   j) Potential connections with existing greenspace and trails. k) Proposed roads, alleys, sidewalks, trails l) Lot configuration/layout, including setback lines m) Proposed detention areas n) Proposed amenity areas o) Example building footprint layout p) Surrounding property owners q) Zoning information (current and proposed) for the subject property and current zoning information for the surrounding parcels r) Estimated impervious surface calculation for the development s) Unit count and calculation of required greenspace. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 46 11/18/21   50.7 RM-8, Multi-Family Residential (8 units/acre) A. Purpose and Intent. The RM-8 district is intended to provide suitable areas for multi-family housing designed in a compatible and complementary manner so as to function as a singular and integrated land use. This zoning district may serve as a transitional zone between commercial/office uses and residential districts of a lesser intensity. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Multi-family dwelling units (apartments). 2. Private parks and playgrounds. 3. Leasing office, clubhouse, gazebo or other structures related to apartment development. 4. Public buildings and utilities. 5. Group homes, limited to one bed per 250 gross square feet of heated building space. Operator must obtain all necessary state certifications. 6. Assisted living, personal care and retirement home facilities, provided: a) Such facilities must obtain all necessary state licenses and/or certifications. b) The maximum number of beds permitted shall be determined by multiplying the site’s acreage by the district’s density limitation and a factor of 1.5. Ex. A 4 acre site could include 48 beds [(4.0 acres) x (8 DUA) x (1.5) = 48] 7. Fraternity and sorority houses and residence halls. 8. Neighborhood recreation centers or swimming pools, provided: a) Lighting shall be established in such a way that no direct light shall cast over any property line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. b) Any building or structure established in connection with such use must be set back no less than 75 feet from any property line. c) All pools must adhere to the standards of the Standard Swimming Pool Code, as amended. 9. Rooming and boardinghouses. Maximum 15 beds per acre. 10. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 11. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. 1. Condominiums, provided: a. May allow as conversion from existing structure(s) used as an apartment complex. b. Maximum Density: 8 units per acre. Note: May be waived upon approval of Mayor and Aldermen based on configuration of existing structure(s). c. Minimum floor area: 1,500 square feet per unit. Note: May be waived upon approval of Mayor and Aldermen based on configuration of existing structure(s). d. Homeowners association required for maintenance of common areas and amenities. e. Land use of condominium is consistent with the latest adopted Future Land Use Map. 2. Manufactured home parks and subdivisions with special bulk and area regulations: Minimum Lot Size: 6,000 sq. ft. Minimum Tract Size: 5 acres Maximum Tract Size: 10 acres Minimum Lot Width: 50 ft. Maximum Building Height: 15 ft. Maximum Building Coverage: 30% Maximum Impervious Surface: 50%  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 47 11/18/21   Minimum recreation area: 10% of total acreage Front Setback: 20 ft. Side Setback (major): 20 ft. Side Setback (minor): 10 ft. Rear Setback: 20 ft. 3. Halfway houses (see standards set forth in Section 71.3). 4. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. 5. Townhomes meeting the standards in Section 77. E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 4. No accessory structure may exceed the mean height of the principal building. 5. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 6. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 7. Solar collection devices: f) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. g) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. h) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 48 11/18/21   b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. i) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. j) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. All outside storage associated with non-residential uses must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by an opaque fence no less than six feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. Buildings must be separated by at least 60 feet unless a side face is involved in which case the buildings shall be separated by no less than 40 feet. 3. No building may exceed 250 feet in length. 4. No unit or building may have direct access to an arterial street outside the development. 5. A recreation area must be provided at a ratio of one acre per 50 units (or a proportional percentage thereof) with a minimum of 10,000 sq. ft. provided. Such area may serve as green space and/or developed for recreational purposes such as pools or basketball and tennis courts. Non-passive recreational areas must be located in such a manner that at least 75% of the units are within 300 feet, as measured from building footprints. 6. Common on-site parking areas shall be located not more than 200 feet from the dwelling units served. No more than 25% of the required parking may be provided within the front yard or setback. 7. Apartment complexes which convert to condominium use must file a new final plat and meet all requirements of the Public Works and Fire Departments. 8. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 49 11/18/21   designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 9. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 10. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Tract Size: 4 acres Maximum Tract Size: 25 acres Maximum Density: 8 dwelling units per acre Minimum Tract Width: 100 ft. Maximum Building Height: 45 ft. Minimum Floor Area: 550 sq. ft. for an efficiency 650 sq. ft. for 1 bedroom unit 900 sq. ft. for 2 bedroom unit 1100 sq. ft. for 3 bedroom unit Maximum Building Coverage: 40 % Maximum Impervious Surface: 60 % Minimum Parking Required: 2 spaces per unit Front Setback (arterial): 50 ft. Front Setback (other): 40 ft. Side Setback (major): 40 ft. Side Setback (minor): 25 ft. Rear Setback: 50 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. When a RM-8 district abuts a single family residential district or use, a 40 foot greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer shall be undisturbed where practical or enhanced where devoid of significant vegetation and must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height (finished side to the exterior). I. Greenspace Requirement. 1. For every RM-8 development, forty percent (40%) of the gross tract area greenspace shall be required unless otherwise specified in this ordinance. 2. Where applicable, the greenspace shall remain primarily undisturbed unless otherwise shown and approved in the greenspace management plan. 3. For housing density calculation purposes, the maximum number of lots shall be determined by dividing the area of the tract of land by the minimum lot size, as described in the bulk and area requirements section of this article. In making this calculation, the following shall not be included in the total area of the parcel: a) 100 year floodplain, b) Floodway, c) Wetlands-as defined by the US Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act, d) Retention/detention areas, utility areas,  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 50 11/18/21   e) Slopes over 25% of at least 5,000 square feet contiguous area, f) Road right-of-ways and areas reserved for utilities. 4. The following are considered Primary Conservation Areas shall be included in the required greenspace, unless the Applicant demonstrates that with this provision would constitute an unusual hardship and be counter to the purposes of this article: a) 100 year floodplain, b) All required stream bank buffer zones, c) Floodway, d) Wetlands-as defined by the US Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act, e) Populations of endangered or threatened species, or habitat for such species, f) Archaeological sites, cemeteries, and burial grounds, g) Retention/detention areas, utility areas, h) Slopes over 25% of at least 5,000 square feet contiguous area, 5. The following are considered Secondary Conservation Areas and are required to be included within the required greenspace to the maximum extent feasible: a) Important historic sites, b) Existing healthy, native forests of at least one acre contiguous area, c) Individual existing healthy trees greater than eight (8) inches in caliper, as measured from their outermost drip line, d) Other significant natural features and scenic view sheds such as ridge lines, peaks and rock outcroppings, particularly those that can be seen from public roads, e) Prime agricultural lands of at least five acres contiguous area, f) Existing trails that connect the tract to neighboring areas. 6. The required greenspace must be organized and designed so that at least 75% of the minimum required green space shall be in a contiguous tract no less than twenty (20) feet in width at its narrowest point. The required greenspace shall adjoin any neighboring areas of greenspace, other protected areas, and non-protected natural areas that would be candidates for inclusion as part of a future area of protected greenspace. Tree density calculations shall be provided for the protected greenspace based on the acreage of dedicated greenspace utilizing the formula specified within the Tree Protection and Landscaping Ordinance. This calculation shall be made separate of the required tree density of the remainder of the development. 7. Above ground utility rights-of-way and small areas of impervious surface (no more than 400 square feet in area) may be included within the protected green space, but cannot be counted towards the forty (40%) percent minimum area requirement (exception: historic structures and pedestrian or non- motorized, except for those allowed by ADA, trails may be counted). Large areas of impervious surface shall be excluded from the minimum required greenspace. 8. The required greenspace shall be directly accessible to the largest practicable number of lots within the subdivision. Non-adjoining lots shall be provided with safe, convenient access to the green space. 9. Green Space Management Plan Required. A green space management plan (“Plan”) shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a land disturbance permit. This plan shall, at a minimum, that consists of the following: a) allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the green space and any facilities located thereon, including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital improvements, b) estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the green space and outlines the means by which such funding will be obtained or provided, c) provides that any changes to the Plan be approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, d) Provides for enforcement of the Plan. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 51 11/18/21   10. Instrument of Permanent Protection Required. An instrument of permanent protection, such as a conservation easement or permanent restrictive covenant shall be placed on the required greenspace property concurrent with the issuance of a land disturbance permit. J. Permitted/Prohibited Uses of Greenspace 1. Permitted uses of greenspace: a) Conservation of natural, archeological or historical resources, b) Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game preserves, or similar conservation-oriented areas, c) Walking or non-motorized trails, except for those allowed by ADA, d) Passive recreation areas, e) Active recreation areas, provided that they are limited to no more than ten (10) percent of the total minimum required greenspace, unless otherwise stated in this ordinance, and are not located within Primary Conservation Areas. Active recreation areas may include impervious surfaces. Active recreation areas in excess of this limit must be located outside of the protected green space, f) Agriculture, horticulture, silviculture, or pasture uses, provided that all applicable best management practices are used to minimize environmental impacts, and such activities are not conducted within Primary Conservation Areas, g) Nonstructural stormwater management practices, h) Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility lines, i) Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes of this article. 3. Prohibited uses of greenspace: a) Golf courses, b) Roads, parking lots and impervious surfaces, except as specifically authorized in the previous sections, c) Agricultural and forestry activities not conducted according to accepted best management practices, d) Other activities as determined by the applicant and recorded on the legal instrument providing for permanent protection. K. Ownership and Management of Greenspace 1. The applicant must identify the owner of the green space and facilities located thereon. If a Homeowner’s Association is the owner, membership in the association is mandatory and automatic for all homeowners of the subdivision and their successors. If a Homeowners Association is the owner, the Homeowners’ Association shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members. The responsibility for maintaining the Green Space and any facilities located thereon shall be borne by the owner. 2. In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the Green Space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the City of Acworth may assume responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the owner, Homeowner’s Association, or to the individual property owners that make up the Homeowner’s  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 52 11/18/21   Association, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all subdivision properties. L. Legal Instrument for Permanent Protection 1. The green space shall be protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument that is recorded with the deed. The instrument shall be one of the following: a) A permanent conservation easement in favor of either: 1. A land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-profit organization with legal authority to accept such easements. The organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence and the conveyance instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or 2. A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals compatible with the purposes of this ordinance. If the entity accepting the easement is not the City, then a third right of enforcement favoring the City shall be included in the easement b) A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in favor of a governmental entity; or c) An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, if approved by the City. 2. The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on the use of the green space. These restrictions shall include all restrictions contained in this article, as well as any further restrictions the Applicant chooses to place on the use of the green space. M. Site Plan A site analysis map shall be required concurrent with the submission of a site concept plan. The purpose of the site analysis map is to ensure that the important site features have been adequately identified prior to the creation of the site design, and that the proposed green space will meet the requirements of this article. The required conceptual site plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include, at a minimum, the following features: a) Property boundaries; b) All streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands and other hydrologic features; c) Topographic contours of no less than 10-foot intervals; d) Complete chart of calculations illustrating full compliance with regulations; e) All Primary and Secondary Conservation Areas labeled by type; f) General vegetation characteristics; g) General soil types; h) The planned location of protected greenspace; i) Existing roads and structures; j) Potential connections with existing greenspace and trails. k) Proposed roads, alleys, sidewalks, trails l) Lot configuration/layout, including setback lines m) Proposed detention areas n) Proposed amenity areas o) Example building footprint layout p) Surrounding property owners q) Zoning information (current and proposed) for the subject property and current zoning information for the surrounding parcels r) Estimated impervious surface calculation for the development s) Unit count and calculation of greenspace. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 53 11/18/21   50.8 C-1, Neighborhood Retail Commercial A. Purpose and Intent. The C-1 district is intended to provide suitable areas for limited retail and personal services serving those neighborhoods in the immediate area. Uses located within this district supply those goods and services that require frequent purchasing with a minimum of customer travel. The scope at which properties are developed within the C-1 district should reflect their relatively small market areas. This zoning district may serve as a step down from more intense commercial uses to residential uses. Goals and objectives of the C-1 district are: 1. To create attractive living areas that will reduce pressure and demand for sprawling development. 2. To accommodate, in compatible fashion, appropriate mixes of residential, employment, and commercial uses in close proximity 3. To create neighborhoods that are visually coherent 4. To create compact, identifiable settlements, with visually discernible boundaries 5. To protect and promote suitable areas for business and commercial uses which benefit from proximity to each other 6. To encourage the intensive development of a centralized business center for the City of Acworth 7. To discourage off-street parking lots; to accommodate parking in a way that does not detract from the neighborhood’s visual attributes and works to complement a pedestrian-friendly environment  B. Permitted Uses. 1. Animal grooming shops. 2. Athletic and health clubs. 3. Banks and financial institutions. 4. Barber and beauty shops. 5. Billiards, pool halls and video arcades. 6. Coin operated laundries and dry cleaning pickup establishments. 7. Convenience stores. Such uses may include self-service fuel sales, provided: a) All gasoline pumps, tanks and other service facilities shall be set back at least 20 feet from all property lines. b) Canopies over fuel islands shall not encroach within 15 feet of any property line. c) No automotive repair is allowed. d) Car washes permitted as accessory use only. 8. Copy centers. 9. Cultural facilities. Art galleries, museums, legitimate theaters, libraries, and other uses similar in character to those listed. 10. Day care centers and nursery schools, provided: a) Such use must obtain certification from the Georgia Department of Human Resources b) Any outdoor play area shall be enclosed by a fence not less than 4 feet in height and located in the rear yard area of the principal building with a self-closing, self-latching gate. 11. Eating and drinking establishments, including drive-in fast food restaurants. Outdoor dining facilities may encroach into required setbacks only upon approval from the Fire Department, Public Works Department and Planning and Zoning. 12. Grocery/food stores. Limited to 20,000 square feet of gross floor area. 13. Neighborhood retail uses (excluding pawn shops) with floor areas under 10,000 square feet. Appropriate uses include: a) book and video stores (non-adult) b) camera shops c) florists d) drug stores e) gift shops  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 54 11/18/21   f) toy stores g) pet grooming and supply shops h) jewelry stores i) sporting goods and hobbies j) apparel stores k) beverage shops (must meet standards in Chapter 6 of the City Code) l) other similar and customary uses 14. Non-automotive repair services such as cameras, shoes, jewelry and the like. 15. Parking for vehicles. If such use abuts a single family residential district, a 15 foot wide landscaped buffer with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height shall be provided. 16. Pharmacies and drug stores. 17. Professional offices with floor areas under 15,000 square feet. 18. Radio, recording and television studios. 19. Religious institutions, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. 20. Shopping Centers, neighborhood markets (up to 30,000 square feet in gross floor area). a) No outparcels allowed. b) All businesses and uses within these centers must be permissible within the district in their own right. c) All loading areas shall be located to the rear. 21. Other uses which are substantially similar in character and impact to those uses enumerated above. Such uses must clearly meet the purpose and intent of this zoning district. 22. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 23. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. Certain temporary uses such as seasonal, tent or sidewalk sales may be permitted within this district, provided: 1. Such use is conducted by the business owner as a part of their business. 2. Such use does not last longer than 45 days. 3. These uses are not located within 25 feet of any public right-of-way. 4. Adequate parking, ingress and egress are provided on site. 5. A temporary use permit is applied for and approved by the Zoning Administrator. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. 1. Construction Contractors Offices (including but not limited to Building, Heating, Plumbing and Electrical) and Related Activities provided the following conditions are met: a) The use must provide for the main office of the contracting company. b) A maximum of 50% of the net floor area will be set aside for storage of equipment and materials and the fabrication of and assembly of said materials. c) There shall be no outdoor storage of materials, supplies, equipment, or construction vehicles. Construction vehicles means any vehicles whose primary purpose is use in land development including but not limited to earth-moving equipment, dump trucks, and bucket trucks. d) A designated off-street parking area shall be provided for the parking of all other vehicles. 2. Mixed Use retail and limited manufacturing as produced by an artisan, as defined, provided the following conditions are met: a) Items assembled or produced on-site as part of the manufacturing function must be offered  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 55 11/18/21   for sale as part of the retail function; b) No more than 50% of the floor area shall be used for manufacturing purposes; c) In as much as the manufacturing component of the business entity is considered a secondary use, it should be situated in such a way as not intrude on the retail activities. Furthermore, public access to the manufacturing component shall only be permitted through the retail portion of the business entity; d) All signage associated with the business entity shall only advertise the retail component; e) Outdoor mechanical equipment associated with the manufacturing component of the business entity shall be screened from public view with lattice-work or some other similar screening material; f) When located adjacent to an R-District, such use shall restrict its hours to 8:00 a.m. to 8 p.m. In addition, the building shall be designed so that no wall openings face the R-District. Parking requirements shall be met for both retail and manufacturing functions. 3. Residential Lofts provided the following conditions are met: a) Maximum density of 5 units per acre b) Residential units shall be located only on the second story (entry ways may be accessed from the ground level) c) Each unit shall have a minimum of 1,200 square feet of floor area. 4. Religious institutions with a lot size less than 5 acres, provided: a. All applications must include a specific site plan. b. The use of a church in an existing shopping center, (as defined in this ordinance) shall not affect the ability of neighboring businesses within the shopping center from applying for alcohol permits under the City Code of Ordinances. Such businesses, whether established prior to or after the location of a church shall not be required to meet the minimum distance requirements within the shopping center. 5. Bed and Breakfast Inn, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. 6. Breweries, Brew Pubs, Distilleries and Farm Wineries, provided: a. Any new construction or land improvements shall be approved site plan specific. b. All manufacturing activities shall be conducted within a wholly enclosed building. 7. Special Events Facilities  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 56 11/18/21   E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. Any accessory building in excess of 1,000 square feet of gross space must meet the setback standards for a principal use and shall be architecturally compatible with the principal structure. 3. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 4. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building, nor shall it contain a greater floor area than the principal structure. 5. No accessory structure may exceed the more restrictive of either 15 feet or the height of the principal building, Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. a) All rooftop units shall be screened. b) All dumpsters shall be located in the rear or side yard and shall have a roof structure c) Recycling collection/drop off centers. d) No outside storage allowed. e) Location of container bins must be approved by the Administrator. 6. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 57 11/18/21   iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. All outside storage areas must be located in the rear yard and must be screened by a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. 2. All outside storage areas must be located in the side or rear yard and must be screened by a solid fence no less than six feet in height. Limited to 25% of total lot. 3. Outdoor display or products that are actively available for sale or lease shall adhere to the following: a) Outdoor display is only allowed with a permitted non-residential land use. b) For Properties located within the Downtown Development Authority District (DDA) area, outdoor display materials must abut the primary building façade with the principal customer entrance, not extend more than six (6) feet from the façade, and not occupy more than 25% of the horizontal length of the façade. For all other properties located in the City, outdoor display materials must abut the primary building façade with the principal customer entrance, not extend more than six (6) feet from the façade, and not occupy more than 40% of the horizontal length of the façade; c) Outdoor display materials must not exceed six (6) feet in overall height; d) Outdoor display materials must be removed and placed within the fully enclosed building at the end of each posted business day with the exception of propane gas storage racks, ice storage bins, soft drink or similar vending machines which may remain outside overnight; and e) Outdoor display materials may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk. Outdoor display may not impair the ability of pedestrians to use the sidewalk. There must be a minimum of six (6) feet of clear distance of sidewalk at all times. 4. No manufacturing processes are permitted, except for those explicitly listed above. 5. Building design and materials may be of the developer’s choosing; however, any facade of the building facing a roadway shall be constructed with brick, stone, rock or wood covering. 6. All new developments must submit a site plan including all of the information listed in Section 69. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Lot Size: 5,000sq. ft.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 58 11/18/21   Minimum Lot Width: 35 ft. Maximum Building Height: 40 ft. Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 0.50 Maximum Impervious Surface: 80 % Minimum landscaped area: 20% Front Setback (arterial): 10 ft. Front Setback (other): 10 ft. Side Setback (major): 10 ft. (3 feet if located within the Acworth Downtown Historic District) Side Setback (minor): 10 ft. Rear Setback: 10 ft. (3 feet if located within the Acworth Downtown Historic District)  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. 1. When a property in this district directly abuts a residential district, a 20 ft. greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. 2. Landscaped areas must contain appropriate materials such as grass, hedges, trees, natural vegetation and the like. Landscaping along right-of-ways and within parking lots (as required in Article VIII) may be counted within this figure, however, no more than 33% of the required landscaping provided may be within stormwater retention facilities. 3. Stormwater retention facilities are not permitted within required buffers. I. Supplemental Provisions 1. When such buildings are adjacent to existing development, facades shall be built within a distance of the frontage line that equals the average of five feet and the setback distance of adjacent development. 2. All uses shall be conducted within complete enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. 3. No less than 75 % of parking spaces shall be to the side or rear of the building and shall be screened from the sidewalk by low walls, fences or hedges. The Zoning Administrator may reduce or waive all on-site parking requirements where suitable and adequate parking will be achieved off-site or on- street. 4. The use of shared parking is strongly encouraged. 5. Parking lots and parking garages shall not abut street intersections. J. Design Provisions 1. New buildings shall be compatible in size, scale and mass with buildings and architectural styles prevalent in the area. 2. Building frontages shall face the street whenever possible. 3. The maximum height of walls or fences shall be eight feet. Barbed wire is prohibited. 4. A consistently high quality of architecture shall be used throughout the development. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 59 11/18/21   50.9 C-2, Community Retail Commercial A. Purpose and Intent. The C-2 district is intended to provide suitable areas for the provision of retail and personal services for the community at large. The regulations which apply within this district are designed to encourage the formation of compatible and economically healthy business and service uses which benefit from close proximity to each other. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Ambulance services. 2. Amusement centers and arcades, including billiards and pool halls. 3. Private parks and playgrounds including Commercial Recreation Facilities (indoor and outdoor). 4. Animal hospitals, kennels clinics. a) All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. b) All animals shall be located within an enclosed building and adequate sound and odor control shall be maintained. 5. Animal grooming shops. All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. 6. Athletic and health clubs. 7. Automobile, trailer and boat sales. a) Minimum one acre lot size. b) All vehicles shall be set back at least 10 feet from the street right-of-way line. c) When such use abuts residentially zoned properties, a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height shall be provided for visual screening. 8. Light Automotive and/or small engine machine repair shops. a) Such use shall not be permitted within 50 feet of any property used for a school, park, playground or hospital. b) All activities shall be carried on entirely within an enclosed building. c) Such use shall not be established on a lot which is adjacent to or directly across the street from any single family residential district. d) All outdoor storage must be to the rear of the principal structure and enclosed by a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. e) No vehicle under repair, parts of any vehicle, or small engine machine or its parts shall remain parked/placed for a period of more than thirty (30) days without being considered “stored.” If a vehicle remains parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days, said vehicle shall be moved to the rear of the repair facility and screened or placed inside said repair facility where the vehicle shall remain until all repairs are completed. 9. Automobile service stations. a) All gasoline pumps, tanks and other service facilities shall be set back at least 20 feet from all property lines. b) Canopies over fuel islands shall not encroach within 15 feet of any property line. c) Minor automobile repair shall be allowed in conjunction with such use provided all such activities shall take place within an enclosed building. d) No outside storage or engine/body dismantling is allowed. e) No vehicle under repair shall remain parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days without being considered “stored.” If a vehicle remains parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days, said vehicle shall be moved to the rear of the repair facility and screened or placed inside said repair facility where the vehicle shall remain until all repairs are completed. 10. Convenience stores. Such uses may include self-service fuel sales, provided:  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 60 11/18/21   a) All gasoline pumps, tanks and other service facilities shall be set back at least 20 feet from all property lines. b) Canopies over fuel islands shall not encroach within 15 feet of any property line. c) No automotive repair is allowed. 11. Banks and financial institutions. 12. Barber and beauty shops. 13. Car washes. 14. Car maintenance facilities such as brake repair, installation of tires, tune-up shops, oil change services, emission stations and the like. a) All activities shall take place within an enclosed building. b) No outside storage or engine/body dismantling is allowed. c) No vehicle under repair shall remain parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days without being considered “stored.” If a vehicle remains parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days, said vehicle shall be moved to the rear of the repair facility and screened or placed inside said repair facility where the vehicle shall remain until all repairs are completed. 15. Clinics and health centers. 16. Clubs and lodges, including assembly halls and conference centers. Such use may include office space where incidental to the principal use. 17. Coin operated laundries and dry cleaning pickup establishments. 18. Coliseum, stadium. Minimum lot size of 5 acres. 19. Commercial landscapers. Outdoor storage shall be at least 25 feet from the street right-of-way. Such use shall be at least 100 feet from any property zoned single family residential. 20. Copy centers. 21. Cultural facilities. Art galleries, museums, theaters, libraries, and other uses similar in character to those listed. 22. Day care centers and nursery schools, provided: a) Such use must obtain certification from the Georgia Department of Human Resources b) Any outdoor play area shall be enclosed by a fence not less than 4 feet in height and located in the rear yard area of the principal building with a self-closing, self-latching gate. 23. Dry cleaning utilizing petrochemicals. Such use shall not be established within 100 feet of any property used or zoned for residential purposes. 24. Eating and drinking establishments, including drive-in fast food restaurants. Outdoor dining facilities may encroach into required setbacks only upon approval from the Fire Department, Public Works Department and Planning and Zoning. (Must meet Chapter 6 of the City Code) 25. Exterminating facilities. 26. Farm and garden supply stores, including nurseries and greenhouses. Outdoor storage shall be at least 25 feet from the street right-of-way. 27. Funeral homes. All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. 28. Golf courses, club houses and golf/baseball driving ranges. a) The facility shall be enclosed by a wall or fence and buffer area of 10 feet in depth to screen adjacent property. b) Central loudspeakers are prohibited. c) Any building or structure established in connection with such use shall be set back not less than 100 feet from rear and side property lines. d) A fifty foot undisturbed buffer shall be required around Lake Allatoona. 29. Grocery and food stores. 30. Hospitals. 31. Hotels and motels. a) Such use shall not be established within 300 feet of any property zoned for residential use. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 61 11/18/21   b) Maximum density of 100 guest units per acre. 32. Lumber, hardware, paint, glass and wallpaper stores. Outdoor storage shall be at least 50 feet from the street right-of-way line and be screened with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. 33. Medical and dental laboratories, provided chemicals are not manufactured on site. 34. Movie theaters. 35. Multi-lease shops (flea markets, etc.). No outdoor display or stalls permitted. 36. Non-automotive repair service centers. No outside storage is permitted. 37. Parking lots and garages. Up to 75% of the gross floor area of the ground floor level may be devoted toward commercial use oriented towards pedestrian traffic. If a surface parking lot abuts a single family residential district, a 5 foot wide landscaped buffer with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height shall be provided. 38. Pharmacies and drug stores. 39. Plumbing and heating equipment dealers. 40. Printing services. 41. Professional and general business offices. No outside storage is permitted. 42. Radio, recording and television studios. 43. Religious institutions, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. 44. Retail automobile parts and tire store. a) There shall be no dismantling of vehicles on the premises to obtain auto parts. b) The only auto part installation that shall be permitted in connection with such use shall be the installation of tires and the installation of minor maintenance or accessory parts. c) Major auto repair shall not be permitted in connection with such uses. Minor repair and maintenance may be permitted provided such repair and maintenance shall be incidental to the normal up-keep of an automobile. 45. Retail trade. Appropriate uses include, but are not limited to: a) book and video stores (non-adult) b) camera shops c) florists d) drug stores e) gift shops f) toy stores g) pet grooming and supply shops h) jewelry stores i) furniture, home furnishings and equipment stores j) pawn shops k) office supplies l) sporting goods and hobbies m) apparel stores n) beverage shops (Must meet Chapter 6 of the City Code) o) general commercial merchandise (variety or department store) p) general commercial wholesale club 46. Shopping centers (up to 250,000 square feet in gross floor area, excluding outparcels). All businesses and uses within these centers must be permissible within the district in their own right (and remain subject to any relevant distancing requirements) except dry cleaning plants utilizing petrochemicals. All loading areas shall be located to the rear. All outparcels must meet the minimum standards. The shopping center must allow for vehicular and pedestrian interconnectivity with the neighboring properties and outparcels, where the topography difference is less than a two to one slope. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 62 11/18/21   47. Vehicle rental facilities meeting the following criteria: a) All vehicles must be stored or otherwise kept to the rear of the shopping center. b) No vehicle maintenance shall be performed on site except vacuuming and washing of vehicles. c) The number of vehicles stored or otherwise kept on site cannot exceed twenty. d) All vehicles on site must be in good working order. 48. Stations, bus or train terminals for passenger service with minimum freight. 49. Taxi stands and dispatching agencies. 50. Telecommunications offices and switching stations (excluding towers). 51. Vehicle leasing or rentals. 52. Other uses which are substantially similar in character and impact to those uses enumerated above. Such uses must clearly meet the purpose and intent of this zoning district. 53. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 54. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. Certain temporary uses such as seasonal, tent or sidewalk sales may be permitted within this district, provided: 1. Such use is conducted by the business owner as a part of their business. 2. Such use does not last longer than 45 days. 3. These uses are not located within 25 feet of any public right-of-way. 4. Adequate parking, ingress and egress are provided on site. 5. A temporary use permit is applied for and approved by the Zoning Administrator. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. 1. Shelters for the homeless. Minimum one acre lot size. a) Such use shall be located at least 750 feet from residentially zoned property. b) Such use may not be established within 1000 feet of any other shelter for the homeless. c) All facilities shall comply with the criteria established for residential uses as per Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI) as amended. 2. Planned Shopping centers (up to 250,000 square feet in gross floor area, excluding outparcels). All businesses and uses within these centers must be permissible within the district in their own right (and remain subject to any relevant distancing requirements) except dry cleaning plants utilizing petrochemicals. All loading areas shall be located to the rear. Lot size, width, setbacks and other standards for lots and outparcels within a planned shopping center may be reduced up to thirty percent (30%). The intent of the reductions is allow unique site design and for greater preservation of greenspace/openspace. All applications must include a specific site plan and must follow a specific architectural theme. The shopping center must allow for vehicular and pedestrian interconnectivity with the neighboring properties and outparcels, where the topography difference is less than a two to one slope. 3. Shopping centers (over 250,000 square feet in gross floor area, excluding outparcels). All businesses and uses within these centers must be permissible within the district in their own right (and remain subject to any relevant distancing requirements) except dry cleaning plants utilizing petrochemicals. All loading areas shall be located to the rear. Where applicable, this use shall also abide by the State of Georgia Developments of Regional Impact review (DRI) requirements by the Atlanta Regional Commission. The shopping center must allow for vehicular and pedestrian interconnectivity with the neighboring properties and outparcels, where the topography difference is less than a two to one slope. 4. Construction Contractors Offices (including but not limited to Building, Heating, Plumbing and Electrical) and Related Activities provided the following conditions are met:  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 63 11/18/21   a) The use must provide for the main office of the contracting company. b) A maximum of 75% of the net floor area will be set aside for storage of equipment and materials and the fabrication of and assembly of said materials. c) There shall be no outdoor storage of materials, supplies, equipment, or construction vehicles. Construction vehicles means any vehicles whose primary purpose is use in land development including but not limited to earth-moving equipment, dump trucks, and bucket trucks. d) A designated off-street parking area shall be provided for the parking of all other vehicles. 2. Extended stay facilities (see standards set forth in Section 73). 3. Religious institutions with a lot size less than 5 acres, provided: a. All applications must include a specific site plan. b. The use of a church in an existing shopping center, (as defined in this ordinance) shall not affect the ability of neighboring businesses within the shopping center from applying for alcohol permits under the City Code of Ordinances. Such businesses, whether established prior to or after the location of a church shall not be required to meet the minimum distance requirements within the shopping center. 4. Mini warehouses and self-storage facilities. 5. Office Services, provided: a. There shall be no manufacturing of any product. Light assembly may be considered. b. No more than 60% of the building shall be used as warehouse unless otherwise approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. c. All actives, including storage, shall be conducted within the enclosed building. 6. Automotive repair shops including paint and body. a) Such use shall not be permitted within 50 feet of any property used for a school, park, playground or hospital. b) All activities shall be carried on entirely within an enclosed building. c) Such use shall not be established on a lot which is adjacent to or directly across the street from any single family residential district. d) All outdoor storage must be to the rear of the principal structure and enclosed by a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height 7. Assisted Living Health Care Facility provided: a) Must consist of a minimum lot size of 4 acres and a maximum of 8 acres. b) There shall not be a similar assisted living medical care facility located within a 1,000 foot radial perimeter of the proposed facility. c) The proposed facility shall incorporate amenities such as, but not limited to, a central gathering area for dining, resident’s activities and socializing, media room, community center, fitness/physical therapy room and a guest reception area for residents to meet visitors. Outdoor areas shall include, but not be limited to, pathways with sitting areas, flower gardens or other similar active or passive outdoor recreation areas. d) Minimum parking: 1) 0.4 spaces/unit, plus; 2) 1 guest space for each 6 dwelling units, plus; 3) 1 space for each employee on largest shift. e) The Assisted Living Health Care Facility shall not be converted into any non-assisted living medical care facility, apartments, condominiums or any other type of development other than that of original intention. 11. Breweries, Brew Pubs, Distilleries and Farm Wineries, provided: a) Any new construction or land improvements shall be approved site plan specific. b) All manufacturing activities shall be conducted within a wholly enclosed building. 12. Special Events Facilities  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 64 11/18/21   D. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. Accessory structures may not be located within 25 feet of any residential property. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of- way than the principal building. 2. Any accessory building in excess of 1,500 square feet of gross space must meet the setback standards for a principal use and shall be architecturally compatible with the principal structure. 3. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 4. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building, nor shall it contain a greater floor area than the principal structure. 5. No accessory structure may exceed the more restrictive of either 25 feet or the height of the principal building, 6. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 7. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 8. All rooftop units shall be screened. 9. All dumpsters shall be located in the rear or side yard and shall have a roof structure 10. Recycling collection/drop off centers. a) No outside storage allowed. b) Location of container bins must be approved by the Administrator. 11. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 65 11/18/21   dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. E. Use Limitations. 1. All outside storage areas must be located in the side or rear yard and must be screened by a solid fence no less than six feet in height. Limited to 25% of total lot. 2. Outdoor display or products that are actively available for sale or lease shall adhere to the following: a) Outdoor display is only allowed with a permitted non-residential land use. b) For Properties located within the Downtown Development Authority District (DDA) area, outdoor display materials must abut the primary building façade with the principal customer entrance, not extend more than six (6) feet from the façade, and not occupy more than 25% of the horizontal length of the façade. For all other properties located in the City, outdoor display materials must abut the primary building façade with the principal customer entrance, not extend more than six (6) feet from the façade, and not occupy more than 40% of the horizontal length of the façade; c) Outdoor display materials must not exceed six (6) feet in overall height; d) Outdoor display materials must be removed and placed within the fully enclosed building at the end of each posted business day with the exception of propane gas storage racks, ice storage bins, soft drink or similar vending machines which may remain outside overnight; and e) Outdoor display materials may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk. Outdoor display may not impair the ability of pedestrians to use the sidewalk. There must be a minimum of six (6) feet of clear distance of sidewalk at all times. 3. No manufacturing processes are permitted. 4. Building design and materials may be of the developer’s choosing; however any facade of the building facing a roadway shall be constructed with brick, stone, rock or wood covering. 5. All new developments must submit a site plan including all of the information listed in Section 69. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 66 11/18/21   F. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Lot Size: 30,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 150 ft. Maximum Building Height: 50 ft. Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 0.50 Maximum Impervious Surface: 80% Minimum landscaped area: 15% Front Setback (arterial): 45 ft. Front Setback (other): 35 ft. Side Setback (major): 30 ft. Side Setback (minor): 20 ft. Rear Setback: 40 ft.  G. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. 1. When a property in this district directly abuts a residential district, a 40 ft. greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. 2. Landscaped areas must contain appropriate materials such as grass, hedges, trees, natural vegetation and the like. Landscaping along right-of-ways and within parking lots (as required in Article VIII) may be counted within this figure, however, no more than 25% of the required landscaping provided may be within stormwater retention facilities. 3. Stormwater retention facilities are not permitted within required buffers. H. Zoning Bonuses and Incentives. The following zoning incentives are designed to allow specific benefits to property owners, developers, and end users of a property and not for the purpose of circumventing any other provision of this ordinance. If a specific bonus or incentive is determined to be contrary to any provision of this ordinance, the City reserves the right to deny a specific bonus or incentive on that basis alone. 1. If required parking is provided exclusively in the rear yard, then the required front yard setback may be reduced 50%. 2. Where parking spaces are provided in on-site underground or deck parking, a bonus floor area of 350 square feet for each provided parking space shall be allowed. 3. Any entity that retrofits an existing site without vehicular or pedestrian interconnection to provide permanent access to adjacent sites’ parking and sidewalks shall be allowed a 20% reduction in required parking. 4. All developments wherein the front door is located within 250 feet of a public transit stop shall be allowed a 10% reduction in required parking. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 67 11/18/21   50.10 OIT, Office Institution Transitional A. Purpose and Intent. The OIT district is intended to provide protection to the residents of residential areas experiencing transition to other uses, primarily professional offices, by promoting the continued utilization of existing houses, discouraging demolition and permitting office uses which do not generate large volumes of traffic, noise or other harmful effects. The OIT district is differentiated from other zonings in that it is designed to facilitate the reuse of existing structures designed for residential purposes in contrast to new developments. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Professional offices. Health practitioners are limited to 2,500 gross square feet. 2. Private parks and playgrounds. 3. Public buildings and facilities, not to include storage yards. 4. Radio, recording and television studios. 5. Cultural facilities. Art galleries, museums, legitimate theaters, libraries, and other uses similar in character to those listed. 6. Single family detached dwellings, but not including manufactured homes. Such use shall adhere to R- 2 zoning standards. 7. Duplexes and triplexes. Such use shall adhere to R-5 zoning standards. 8. Rooming and boardinghouses. Maximum 15 beds per acre. 9. Personal care homes, provided: a) The principal structure contains a residential facade architecturally similar to adjacent buildings. b) Such facilities obtain all necessary local and state licenses. c) The use is limited to the principal structure only. d) The maximum number of beds permitted shall be limited to one per 250 gross square feet of heated floor space within the principal structure. e) Signage is limited to one non-illuminated wall sign no greater than 6 square feet and is permitted through the Zoning Administrator. 10. Public buildings and utilities. 11. Non-commercial clubs or lodges. 12. Photography and artist studios. 13. Day care centers and nursery schools, provided: a) Such use must obtain certification from the Georgia Department of Human Resources. b) Any outdoor play area shall be enclosed by a fence not less than 4 feet in height and located in the rear yard area of the principal building with a self-closing, self-latching gate. 14. Service related uses such as catering, event planning and similar uses that typically conduct an end service at an off-site location. 15. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any permitted use. 16. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance). 17. Other uses which are substantially similar in character and impact to those uses enumerated above. Such uses must clearly meet the purpose and intent of this zoning district. C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. Not applicable in this district. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. Bed and Breakfast Inns, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 68 11/18/21   b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building, nor shall it contain a greater floor area than the principal structure. 4. No accessory structure may exceed the more restrictive of either 15 feet or the height of the principal building. 5. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 6. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach into the required rear or side setback. 7. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 69 11/18/21     b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. Residential facade, architecturally similar to adjacent buildings. 2. For properties located within the Downtown Development Authority District (DDA) area, outdoor display or products that are actively available for sale or lease shall adhere to the following: a) Outdoor display is only allowed with a permitted non-residential land use. b) Outdoor display materials must abut the primary building façade with the principal customer entrance, not extend more than six (6) feet from the façade, and not occupy more than 25% of the horizontal length of the façade;  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 70 11/18/21   c) Outdoor display materials must not exceed six (6) feet in overall height; d) Outdoor display materials must be removed and placed within the fully enclosed building at the end of each posted business day with the exception of propane gas storage racks, ice storage bins, soft drink or similar vending machines which may remain outside overnight; and e) Outdoor display materials may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk. Outdoor display may not impair the ability of pedestrians to use the sidewalk. There must be a minimum of six (6) feet of clear distance of sidewalk at all times. 3. The parking area shall be located in the rear yard at least 5 feet from the rear property line. 4. Limitation on signs: a) No sign structure shall exceed 32 square feet or 6 feet in height. b) Copy area of the sign is limited to 20 square feet. c) No animated, roof, internally illuminated or flashing/blinking signs. d) Wall signs shall not be permitted higher than 12 feet and are limited to 12 square feet. 5. Bulk and area requirements may be waived by the Director when an existing structure is converted to OIT use. 6. Only existing structures previously utilized for residential purposes may be rezoned to OIT. A commercial certificate of occupancy must be obtained prior to any business license being issued. 7. Lighting shall be established so that no direct light shall cast over any property line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Lot Size: 10,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 60 ft. Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Maximum Impervious Surface: 50% Front Setback (arterial): 40 ft. Front Setback (other): 30 ft. Side Setback (major): 25 ft. Side Setback (minor): 10 ft. Rear Setback: 40 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. When a property in this district is converted to commercial uses a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height shall be provided and maintained between such use and any abutting residential district. The type of fence must be approved by the Director of Planning and Zoning. Plantings may be approved in lieu of the required fence at the discretion of the Director. In no case shall the screening requirement be waived except when the required screening would be in front of the principal structures upon the subject and adjacent properties. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 71 11/18/21   50.11 LRO, Low Rise Office A. Purpose and Intent. The LRO district is intended to provide suitable areas for small scale professional offices and other non-retail oriented commercial uses such as offices and day care centers. This district provides a step down from more intense uses and is ideally located between residential zonings and more intense uses. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Banks and financial institutions, including those with drive-in services and automatic tellers. 2. Cultural facilities. 3. Private Parks and playgrounds. 4. Day care centers and nursery schools, provided: a) Such use must obtain certification from the Georgia Department of Human Resources b) Any outdoor play area shall be enclosed by a fence not less than 4 feet in height and located in the rear yard area of the principal building with a self-closing, self-latching gate. 4. Health service clinics. 5. Public buildings and facilities, not to include storage yards. 6. Radio, recording and television studios. 7. Photography and artist studios. 8. Cultural facilities. Art galleries, museums, legitimate theaters, libraries, and other uses similar in character to those listed. 9. Offices, professional and general office. Maximum gross floor area of 15,000 square feet. 10. Personal care facilities, provided: a) Such use must obtain all necessary local and state licenses. b) The maximum number of beds permitted shall not exceed one per 200 gross square feet. 11. Other uses which are substantially similar in character and impact to those uses enumerated above. Such uses must clearly meet the purpose and intent of this zoning district. 12. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any permitted use. 13. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. Not applicable in this district. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. Group homes (see standards set forth in Section 71.2). E. Accessory Structures 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. Any accessory building in excess of 1,000 square feet of gross space must meet the setback standards for a principal use and shall be architecturally compatible with the principal structure. 3. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 4. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building, nor shall it contain a greater floor area than the principal structure. 5. No accessory structure may exceed the more restrictive of either 15 feet or the height of the principal building. 6. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 72 11/18/21   7. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 8. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 73 11/18/21   beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. No outside storage is permitted. 2. Commercial vehicles parked on-site may be no larger than a step van. 3. No laboratories or clinics are permitted. 4. Lighting shall be established so that no direct light shall cast over any property line nor adversely affect neighboring properties. 5. All new developments must submit a site plan including all of the information listed in Section 69. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Lot Size: 15,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 70 ft. Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 0.50 Maximum Impervious Surface: 70 % Minimum landscaped area: 20 % Front Setback (arterial): 40 ft. Front Setback (other): 30 ft. Side Setback (major): 25 ft. Side Setback (minor): 15 ft. Rear Setback: 30 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. 1. When a property in this district directly abuts a single family residential district, a 20 ft. greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height if vegetative materials do not provide continuous visual screening. 2. Landscaped areas must contain appropriate materials such as grass, hedges, trees, natural vegetation and the like. Landscaping along right-of-ways and within parking lots (as required in Article VIII) may be counted within this figure, however, no more than 25% of the required landscaping provided may be within stormwater retention facilities. 3. Stormwater retention facilities are not permitted within required buffers. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 74 11/18/21   50.12 OP, Office Professional A. Purpose and Intent. The OP district is intended to provide suitable areas for non-retail commercial uses such as offices and financial institutions, schools and clinics. This district is designed to support mid-sized office developments, banking and professional offices, hotels and other non-retail commercial activities. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics. a) All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. b) All animals shall be housed within an enclosed building and adequate sound and odor control shall be maintained. 2. Assembly halls including union halls, conference centers, fraternal clubs and uses of a similar nature. 3. Private parks and playgrounds including Commercial Recreation Facilities (indoor and outdoor). 4. Banks and financial institutions, including those with drive-in services and automatic tellers. 5. Cultural facilities. 6. Day care centers and nursery schools, provided: a) Such use must obtain certification from the Georgia Department of Human Resources b) Any outdoor play area shall be enclosed by a fence not less than four feet in height and located in the rear yard area of the principal building with a self-closing, self-latching gate. 7. Group homes and halfway houses, limited to one bed per 250 gross square feet of heated building space. Operator must obtain all necessary state certifications. 8. Funeral homes. Such use shall be at least 300 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. 9. Halfway houses. a) The structure meets all aspects of the Standard Housing Code including minimum dwelling space requirements. b) The operator obtains certification from the appropriate state licensing body. c) No other such facility is located within 1,000 feet as measured from property line to property line. 10. Health service clinics (including accessory pharmacies). 11. Hospitals. 12. Medical and dental laboratories. 13. Offices, professional and general business. 14. Parking lots and garages. Up to 50% of the gross floor area of the ground floor level may be devoted toward commercial use oriented towards pedestrian traffic. If a surface parking lot abuts a single family residential district, a 10 foot wide landscaped buffer with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height shall be provided. 15. Public buildings and utilities. 16. Radio, recording and television studio facilities. 17. Religious institutions, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. 18. Sanitariums, rest and retirement homes, nursing homes, assisted living and personal care facilities. a) Must attain all required state certifications. b) Maximum 20 beds per gross acre of development. 19. Schools, colleges and universities. Public and private. a) Minimum 5 acre lot size. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 75 11/18/21   b) Accessory uses may include food preparation and service, athletic facilities, residence halls, limited retail activities and any other use denoted as a permitted use within this subsection subject to such use being wholly accessory to the principal use. 20. Shelters for the homeless. a) Minimum one acre lot size. b) Such use shall be located at least 750 feet from residentially zoned property. c) Such use may not be established within 1000 feet of any other shelter for the homeless. d) All facilities shall comply with the criteria established for residential uses as per Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI) as amended. 21. Other uses which are substantially similar in character and impact to those uses enumerated above. Such uses must clearly meet the purpose and intent of this zoning district. 22. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use, provided: a) Retail sales and services must be conducted and accessed wholly within the building(s) housing the use to which the activities are accessory and are limited to the first two stories. b) No show window or other advertising shall be visible from the exterior of the primary use structure. 23. Personal care facilities, including nursing homes, assisted living, retirement home facilities provided: a) Such use must obtain all necessary local and state licenses. b) The maximum number of beds permitted shall not exceed one per 200 gross square feet. 24. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance). C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. Not applicable in this district. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. 1. Religious institutions with a lot size less than 5 acres, provided: a) All applications must include a specific site plan. b) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. Outdoor display or products that are actively available for sale or lease shall adhere to the following: a) Outdoor display is only allowed with a permitted non-residential land use. b) For Properties located within the Downtown Development Authority District (DDA) area, outdoor display materials must abut the primary building façade with the principal customer entrance, not extend more than six (6) feet from the façade, and not occupy more than 25% of the horizontal length of the façade. For all other properties located in the City, outdoor display materials must abut the primary building façade with the principal customer entrance, not extend more than six (6) feet from the façade, and not occupy more than 40% of the horizontal length of the façade; c) Outdoor display materials must not exceed six (6) feet in overall height; d) Outdoor display materials must be removed and placed within the fully enclosed building at the end of each posted business day with the exception of propane gas storage racks, ice storage bins, soft drink or similar vending machines which may remain outside overnight; and e) Outdoor display materials may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk. Outdoor display may not impair the ability of pedestrians to use the sidewalk. There must be  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 76 11/18/21   a minimum of six (6) feet of clear distance of sidewalk at all times. 3. Any accessory building in excess of 1,000 square feet of gross space must be at least 10 feet from any property line and architecturally compatible with the principal structure. 4. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 5. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building, nor shall it contain a greater floor area than the principal structure. 6. No accessory structure may exceed the more restrictive of either 15 feet or the height of the principal building. 7. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 8. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 9. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 77 11/18/21     c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. No outside storage is permitted. 2. No uses which emit odors, fumes or sounds are permitted. 3. All new developments must submit a site plan including all of the information listed in Section 69. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Lot Size: 25,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 100 ft. Maximum Building Height: 50 ft. Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 0.50 Maximum Impervious Surface: 80 % Minimum landscaped area: 15 % Front Setback (arterial): 50 ft. Front Setback (other): 40 ft. Side Setback (major): 25 ft. Side Setback (minor): 15 ft. Rear Setback: 40 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. 1. When a property in this district directly abuts a single family residential district, a 30 ft. greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height if vegetative materials do not provide continuous visual screening. Landscaped areas must contain appropriate materials such as grass, hedges, trees, natural vegetation and the like. Landscaping along right-of-ways and within parking lots (as required in Article VIII) may be counted within this figure, however, no more than 25% of the required landscaping provided may be within stormwater retention facilities. 2. Stormwater retention facilities are not permitted within required buffers. I. Zoning Bonuses and Incentives. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 78 11/18/21   The following zoning incentives are designed to allow specific benefits to property owners, developers, and end users of a property and not for the purpose of circumventing any other provision of this ordinance. If a specific bonus or incentive is determined to be contrary to any provision of this ordinance, the City reserves the right to deny a specific bonus or incentive on that basis alone. 1. If required parking is provided exclusively in the rear yard, then the required front yard setback may be reduced 50%. 2. Where parking spaces are provided in on-site underground or deck parking, a bonus floor area of 350 square feet for each provided parking space shall be allowed. 3. Any entity that retrofits an existing site without vehicular or pedestrian interconnection to provide permanent access to adjacent sites’ parking and sidewalks shall be allowed a 15% reduction in required parking. 4. All developments wherein the front door is located within 250 feet of a public transit stop shall be allowed a 10% reduction in required parking. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 79 11/18/21   50.13 LI, Light Industrial A. Purpose and Intent. The LI district is intended to provide suitable areas for business distribution/service facilities, transportation terminals and manufacturing/assembly processes which do not emit noise, vibration, smoke, gas, fumes, odors or any other effluents from an enclosed building. These districts should have access to arterial roadways and utilities and discourage uses that are incompatible with light manufacturing. When located on the perimeter of an industrial node, the LI district should provide for uses that are low in intensity and scale to ensure compatibility with adjacent properties. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Agriculture and forestry, provided: a) All buildings used for livestock shall be set back not less than 200 feet from any property line. b) All animals shall be maintained at least 100 feet from any property line. c) Livestock and poultry rearing are not permitted on lots containing less than two acres. d) Abattoirs and hatcheries shall be located at least 300 feet from any property zoned for residential use. 2. Private parks and playgrounds including Commercial Recreation Facilities (indoor and outdoor). 3. Community fairs. 4. Farmers’ markets. 5. Helicopter landing areas. Minimum one acre lot. Must be enclosed by a fence or wall no less than eight feet in height. 6. Administrative and distribution offices including contractors’ offices. All outdoor storage must be screened with an opaque fence or wall no less than six feet in height and at least 50 feet from any property zoned or used for residential purposes and 25 feet from City right-of-way. 7. Dry cleaning plants. a) Such use shall be at least 300 feet from any property zoned or used for residential purposes. b) All applicable state, federal and local codes must be met. 8. Commercial greenhouse or plant nursery. 9. Health service clinics (including accessory pharmacies). 10. Assembly halls including union halls, conference centers, fraternal clubs and uses of a similar nature. 11. Office service and supply facilities (non-retail). 12. Vocational schools. 13. Research laboratories including medical and dental labs. 14. Public buildings and utilities. 15. Ambulance services. 16. Outdoor storage facilities, excluding junk and salvage yards. a) Such use shall be enclosed by an opaque fence or wall no less than 8 feet in height which provides continuous visual screening. b) No repair or other such activity shall be conducted. c) Such use shall be at least 50 feet from any property zoned or used for residential purposes and 25 feet from City right-of-way. 17. Exterminating facilities. 18. Farm and garden supply stores, including nurseries and greenhouses. Outdoor storage shall be at least 25 feet from City right-of-way. 19. Light manufacturing establishments. a) Maximum lot size of 5 acres. b) No activity which produces liquid effluent, odor, fumes or dust which can be detected beyond the walls of the building is permitted. 20. Fuel and ice dealers. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 80 11/18/21   21. Rail, bus and transit stations. 22. Heavy repair services and trade shops, including sheet metal, upholstering, plumbing, carpentry, sign painting and other similar activities. 23. Taxi stands and dispatching agencies. 24. Automobile, trailer and boat sales/service. a) Minimum one acre lot size. b) All vehicles shall be set back at least 10 feet from the street right-of-way line. c) Such use shall be located at least 50 feet from any properties zoned for residential purposes. d) A solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height shall be maintained to provide a visual screening between the residential and commercial properties. 25. Funeral homes. All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. 26. Newspaper publishing facilities. 27. Warehousing, including commercial mini-warehouses. 28. Outdoor advertising services. Includes the construction, repair, and maintenance of outdoor advertising signs. All non-storage activities shall be conducted within an enclosed building. 29. Printing services. 30. Radio and television studio facilities. 31. Light assembly and fabrication. No activity which produces liquid effluent, odor, fumes or dust which can be detected beyond the walls of the building is permitted. 32. Parking lots and garages. 33. Automobile service stations. a) All gasoline pumps, tanks and other service facilities shall be set back at least 20 feet from all property lines. b) Canopies over fuel islands shall not encroach within 15 feet of any property line. c) Minor automobile repair shall be allowed in conjunction with such use provided all such activities shall take place within an enclosed building. d) No outside storage or engine/body dismantling is allowed. e) No vehicle under repair shall remain parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days without being considered “stored.” If a vehicle remains parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days, said vehicle shall be moved to the rear of the repair facility and screened or placed inside said repair facility where the vehicle shall remain until all repairs are completed. 34. Car maintenance facilities such as brake repair, installation of tires, tune-up shops, oil change services, emission stations and the like. a) All activities shall take place within an enclosed building. b) No outside storage or engine/body dismantling is allowed. c) No vehicle under repair shall remain parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days without being considered “stored.” If a vehicle remains parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days, said vehicle shall be moved to the rear of the repair facility and screened or placed inside said repair facility where the vehicle shall remain until all repairs are completed. 35. Automotive repair shops (including paint and body). a) Such use shall not be permitted within 50 feet of any property used for a school, park, playground or hospital. b) All activities shall be carried on entirely within an enclosed building. c) Such use shall not be established on a lot which is adjacent to or directly across the street from any single family residential district. d) All outdoor storage must be to the rear of the principal structure and enclosed by an opaque fence no less than eight feet in height. e) No vehicle under repair shall remain parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days without being considered “stored.” If a vehicle remains parked for a period of more than thirty (30)  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 81 11/18/21   days, said vehicle shall be moved to the rear of the repair facility and screened or placed inside said repair facility where the vehicle shall remain until all repairs are completed. 36. Wholesale trade and distribution facilities, including office showrooms and display areas. 37. Coliseum, stadiums and amusement parks. Minimum 5 acre lot size. a) The facility shall be enclosed by a wall or fence and buffer area of 10 feet in depth to screen adjacent property. b) No building shall not be permitted within 500 feet of property zoned or used for residential purposes. 38. Cultural facilities. Art galleries, museums, legitimate theaters, libraries, and other uses similar in character to those listed. 39. Commercial recreation and entertainment facilities. 40. Golf courses, club houses and golf/baseball driving ranges. a) The facility shall be enclosed by a wall or fence and buffer area of 10 feet in depth to screen adjacent property. b) Central loudspeakers are prohibited. c) Any building or structure established in connection with such use shall be set back not less than 100 feet from rear and side property lines. 41. Movie theaters. 42. Drive-in movie theater. a) The theater screen and all buildings shall be set back at least 50 feet from any property line. b) Central loudspeakers are prohibited. c) The theater screen shall not be visible from an interstate or arterial roadway. 43. Animal hospitals, kennels and veterinary clinics. a) All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. b) All animals shall be located within an enclosed building and adequate sound and odor control shall be maintained. 44. Animal grooming shops. All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. 45. Car washes. 46. Industrial/warehouse parks. 47. Other uses which are substantially similar in character and impact to those uses enumerated above. Such uses must clearly meet the purpose and intent of this zoning district. 48. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use, provided: a) Retail sales and services must be conducted and accessed wholly within the building(s) housing the use to which the activities are accessory and comprise no more than 10% of the gross floor area. b) No show window or other advertising shall be visible from the exterior of the primary use structure. 49. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. Not applicable in this district. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. 1. Telecommunications antennas and towers (see standards set forth in Section 76). 2. Adult Entertainment (see Chapter 10, Article II, City Code) 3. Extended Stay Facilities (See standards set forth in Section 73) 4. Religious institutions, provided: a) All applications must include a specific site plan. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 82 11/18/21   b) The use of a church in an existing industrial park or shopping center, (as defined in this ordinance) shall not affect the ability of neighboring businesses within the shopping center from applying for alcohol permits under the City Code of Ordinances. Such businesses, whether established prior to or after the location of a church shall not be required to meet the minimum distance requirements within the shopping center. 5. Brewery, Brew Pubs or Distilleries, provided: a) Any new construction or land improvements shall be approved site plan specific. b) All manufacturing activities shall be conducted within a wholly enclosed building. E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 15 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. Any accessory building in excess of 2,000 square feet of gross space must meet the setback standards for a principal use and shall be architecturally compatible with the principal structure. 3. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 4. No accessory structure shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal structure. 5. No accessory structure may exceed the more restrictive of either 20 feet or the height of the principal building, 6. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 7. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 8. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings):  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 83 11/18/21   i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. All outside storage areas must be screened by an opaque fence no less than eight feet in height. Maximum of 67 % of lot may be utilized for such use. 2. For properties located within the Downtown Development Authority District (DDA) area, outdoor display or products that are actively available for sale or lease shall adhere to the following: a) Outdoor display is only allowed with a permitted non-residential land use. b) Outdoor display materials must abut the primary building façade with the principal customer entrance, not extend more than six (6) feet from the façade, and not occupy more than 25% of the horizontal length of the façade; c) Outdoor display materials must not exceed six (6) feet in overall height; d) Outdoor display materials must be removed and placed within the fully enclosed building at the end of each posted business day with the exception of propane gas storage racks, ice storage bins, soft drink or similar vending machines which may remain outside overnight; and e) Outdoor display materials may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk. Outdoor display may not impair the ability of pedestrians to use the sidewalk. There must be a minimum of six (6) feet of clear distance of sidewalk at all times. 3. Building design and materials may be of the developer’s choosing; however, any facade of the building facing a roadway shall be constructed with brick, stone, rock or wood covering. 4. All new developments must submit a site plan including all of the information listed in Section 69  G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Lot Size: 20,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 100 ft.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 84 11/18/21   Maximum Building Height: 50 ft. Maximum Floor Area Ratio : 0.50 Maximum Impervious Surface: 80% Minimum Landscaped Area: 15% Front Setback (arterial): 40 ft. Front Setback (other): 40 ft. Side Setback (major): 30 ft. Side Setback (minor): 20 ft. Rear Setback: 40 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. 1. When a property in this district directly abuts a residential district, a 50 ft. greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. All loading docks shall be screened by either landscaping or a stabilized berm. 2. Landscaped areas must contain appropriate materials such as grass, hedges, trees, natural vegetation and the like. Landscaping along right-of-ways and within parking lots (as required in Article VIII) may be counted within this figure, however, no more than 33% of the required landscaping provided may be within stormwater retention facilities. 3. Stormwater retention facilities are not permitted within required buffers. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 85 11/18/21   50.14 HI, Heavy Industrial A. Purpose and Intent. The HI district is intended to provide suitable areas for major manufacturing processing, warehousing and research facilities which require open storage and large amounts of land. Typical heavy industrial uses include manufacturing, chemical manufacturing and storage, petrochemical refining and storage, mining and other land uses that may affect the environment. These districts should have access to major streets and utilities and discourage uses which are incompatible. When located on the perimeter of an industrial node, the HI district should provide for uses that are lower in intensity and scale to ensure compatibility with adjacent properties. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Agriculture and forestry, provided: a) All buildings used for livestock shall be set back not less than 200 feet from any property line. b) All animals shall be maintained at least 100 feet from any property line. c) Livestock and poultry uses are not permitted on lots containing less than 2 acres. d) Abattoirs and hatcheries shall be located at least 300 feet from any property zoned for residential use. 2. Private parks and playgrounds including Commercial Recreation Facilities (indoor and outdoor). 3. Community fairs. 4. Farmers’ markets. 5. Helicopter landing areas. Minimum one acre. Must be enclosed by a fence no less than 8 feet in height. 6. Administrative and distribution offices including contractor’s offices. All outdoor storage must be screened with an opaque fence no less than eight feet in height and at least 50 feet from any property zoned or used for residential purposes and 25 feet from City right-of-way. 7. Dry cleaning plants. a) Such use shall be at least 300 feet from any property zoned or used for residential purposes. b) All applicable state, federal and local codes must be complied with. 8. Commercial greenhouse or plant nursery. 9. Mining. a) The extraction of dirt, sand or soil shall not be established within 500 feet of a residential use or 200 feet of any other use. b) The extraction of rock and gravel shall not be established within 4,000 feet of a residential use or 2,000 feet of any other use. c) The removal area shall be enclosed by a fence no less than 8 feet in height to prevent access by the general public. This fence shall be locked during non-business hours. 10. Assembly halls including union halls, conference centers, fraternal clubs and uses of a similar nature. 11. Office service and supply facilities (non-retail). 12. Vocational schools. 13. Research laboratories including medical and dental labs. 14. Public buildings and utilities. 15. Ambulance services. 16. Outdoor storage facilities including junk and salvage yards shall be permitted in compliance with section 65. a) Such use shall be enclosed by an opaque wall or fence no less than 8 feet in height which provides continuous visual screening. b) No repair or other such activity shall be conducted. c) Such use shall be at least 50 feet from any property zoned or used for residential purposes. 17. Exterminating facilities. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 86 11/18/21   18. Farm and garden supply stores, including nurseries and greenhouses. Outdoor storage shall be at least 50 feet from any property zoned or used for residential purposes. 19. Fuel and ice dealers. 20. Truck terminals. Minimum 5 acre lot size. All structures shall be located and activities conducted (including parking) at least 300 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. 21. Rail yards. Minimum 10 acres. 22. Rail, bus and transit stations. 23. Heavy repair services and trade shops, including sheet metal, upholstering, plumbing, carpentry, sign painting and other similar activities 24. Taxi stands and dispatching agencies. 25. Automobile, trailer and boat sales/service. Minimum one acre lot size. a) Minimum one acre lot size. b) All vehicles shall be set back at least 10 feet from the street right-of-way line. c) Such use shall be located at least 50 feet from any properties zoned for residential purposes. d) A solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height shall be maintained to provide a visual screening between the residential and commercial properties. 26. Funeral homes. All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. 27. Newspaper publishing facilities. 28. Warehousing. 29. Outdoor advertising services. Includes the construction, repair, and maintenance of outdoor advertising signs. All non-storage activities shall be conducted within an enclosed building. 30. Printing services. 31. Radio and television studio facilities. 32. Assembly and fabrication. 33. Parking lots and garages. 34. Automobile service stations. a) All gasoline pumps, tanks and other service facilities shall be set back at least 20 feet from all property lines. b) Canopies over fuel islands shall not encroach within 15 feet of any property line. c) Minor automobile repair shall be allowed in conjunction with such use provided all such activities shall take place within an enclosed building. d) No outside storage or engine/body dismantling is allowed. e) No vehicle under repair shall remain parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days without being considered “stored.” If a vehicle remains parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days, said vehicle shall be moved to the rear of the repair facility and screened or placed inside said repair facility where the vehicle shall remain until all repairs are completed. 35. Car maintenance facilities such as brake repair, installation of tires, tune-up shops, oil change services, emission stations and the like. a) All activities shall take place within an enclosed building. b) No outside storage or engine/body dismantling is allowed. c) No vehicle under repair shall remain parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days without being considered “stored.” If a vehicle remains parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days, said vehicle shall be moved to the rear of the repair facility and screened or placed inside said repair facility where the vehicle shall remain until all repairs are completed. 36. Automotive repair shops (including paint and body). a) Such use shall not be permitted within 50 feet of any property used for a school, park, playground or hospital. b) All activities shall be carried on entirely within an enclosed building. c) Such use shall not be established on a lot which is adjacent to or directly across the street  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 87 11/18/21   from any single family residential district. d) All outdoor storage must be to the rear of the principal structure and enclosed by an opaque fence no less than 8 feet in height. e) No vehicle under repair shall remain parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days without being considered “stored.” If a vehicle remains parked for a period of more than thirty (30) days, said vehicle shall be moved to the rear of the repair facility and screened or placed inside said repair facility where the vehicle shall remain until all repairs are completed. 37. Wholesale trade and distribution facilities, including office showrooms and display areas. 38. Coliseum, stadium. 5 acre minimum lot size. 39. Manufacturing establishments involving the conversion of raw materials into useable finished products, provided that any manufacturing process which generates liquid waste complies with all local, state and federal pollution standards. 40. Petroleum and petrochemical refining and storage. All structures (excluding offices) shall be located at least 100 feet from any property line and 200 feet from any residentially zoned or used property. 41. Tire retreading and recapping. 42. Drive-in movie theater. a) The theater screen and all buildings shall be set back at least 50 feet from any property line. b) Central loudspeakers are prohibited. c) The theater screen shall not be visible from an interstate or arterial roadway. 43. Animal hospitals, kennels and veterinary clinics. a) All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. b) All animals shall be located within an enclosed building and adequate sound and odor control shall be maintained. 44. Animal grooming shops. All structures shall be located and activities conducted at least 100 feet from any property zoned for residential purposes. 45. Car washes. 46. Commercial recreation and entertainment facilities. 47. Other uses which are substantially similar in character and impact to those uses enumerated above. Such uses must clearly meet the purpose and intent of this zoning district. 48. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use, provided: a) Retail sales and services must be conducted and accessed wholly within the building(s) housing the use to which the activities are accessory and comprise no more than 10% of the gross floor area. b) No show window or other advertising shall be visible from the exterior of the primary use structure. 49. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance)  C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. Not applicable in this district. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. 1. Telecommunications antennas and towers (see standards set forth in Section 76). 2. Adult Entertainment (see Chapter 10, Article II, City Code) 3. Recycling collection centers (may also be defined by the State as a construction and demolition transfer station) are to be submitted and reviewed with the following: a) Site plan detailing building location, business operation, curb cuts and traffic flow, distance from the nearest facility. b) No outside storage allowed. c) Location of container bins must be approved by the Administrator. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 88 11/18/21   d) There shall only be a transfer of construction and demolition debris. e) There shall be no transfer of household solid and liquid waste. f) The facility must be located on an arterial or higher classified public road. g) The site shall be a minimum of 2 acres. h) Must be approved and permitted by the State of Georgia and meet all Local, State, and Federal laws. 4. Brewery, Brew Pubs or Distilleries, provided: a) Any new construction or land improvements shall be approved site plan specific. b) All manufacturing activities shall be conducted within a wholly enclosed building. E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 15 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory structure shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal structure. 4. No accessory structure may exceed the more restrictive of either 20 feet or the height of the principal building. 5. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 6. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 7. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 89 11/18/21   dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. All outside storage areas must be located in the rear yard and must be screened by an opaque fence no less than eight feet in height. 2. For properties located within the Downtown Development Authority District (DDA) area, outdoor display or products that are actively available for sale or lease shall adhere to the following: a) Outdoor display is only allowed with a permitted non-residential land use. b) Outdoor display materials must abut the primary building façade with the principal customer entrance, not extend more than six (6) feet from the façade, and not occupy more than 25% of the horizontal length of the façade; c) Outdoor display materials must not exceed six (6) feet in overall height; d) Outdoor display materials must be removed and placed within the fully enclosed building at the end of each posted business day with the exception of propane gas storage racks, ice storage bins, soft drink or similar vending machines which may remain outside overnight; and e) Outdoor display materials may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk. Outdoor display may not impair the ability of pedestrians to use the sidewalk. There must be a minimum of six (6) feet of clear distance of sidewalk at all times. 3. Building design and materials may be of the developer’s choosing; however, any facade of the building facing a roadway shall be constructed with brick, stone, rock or wood covering. 4. All new developments must submit a site plan including all of the information listed in Section 69. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Lot Size: 40,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 150 ft.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 90 11/18/21   Maximum Building Height: 50 ft. Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 1.0 Maximum Impervious Surface: 80% Minimum Landscaped Area: 10% Front Setback (arterial): 50 ft. Front Setback (other): 50 ft. Side Setback (major): 50 ft. Side Setback (minor): 20 ft. Rear Setback: 50 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. 1. When a property in this district directly abuts a residential district, a 50 ft. greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer must include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. All loading docks shall be screened by either landscaping or a stabilized berm. 2. Landscaped areas must contain appropriate materials such as grass, hedges, trees, natural vegetation and the like. Landscaping along right-of-ways and within parking lots (as required in Article VIII) may be counted within this figure, however, no more than 50% of the required landscaping provided may be within stormwater retention facilities. 3. Stormwater retention facilities are not permitted within required buffers. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 91 11/18/21   50.15 MU, Mixed Use District A. Purpose. The mixed use zoning category is a floating zone which is established for the purpose of providing a compatible mixture of commercial, employment, residential, recreational, civic, and/or cultural uses which are planned and developed as a unit. The location of a mixed use district is restricted to areas which are designated mixed use (single-family, multi-family, commercial, office) in the Acworth Comprehensive Plan and Future Land Use Map. A mixed use development should complement surrounding areas. Among the goals of the mixed use zoning category are the following:  1. Encourage residential uses in conjunction with commercial activities in order to create an active street life, enhance the vitality of businesses, and reduce vehicular traffic; 2. Provide opportunities for horizontal and vertical mixed-use developments by permitting existing and planned commercial zones to be combined into unified development sites; 3. Encourage compatibility between residential and commercial uses in areas where residential zones directly abut commercial zones, by permitting greater design flexibility across the existing boundaries of the two zones; 4. Ensure that the appearance and effects of buildings and uses are harmonious with the character (topography, economy, society) of the area in which they are located. B. Effect and Procedure. The site plan for development within the mixed use district shall be in conjunction with a master development plan approved by the Board of Planning and Zoning and Board of Aldermen. The owner and/or developer of the tract of land proposed to be included in the development shall file a general site plan with the Zoning Administrator for recommendation to the Boards of Planning and Zoning and Aldermen. The plan shall contain information and representations required or deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator, Public Works Director, Board of Planning and Zoning, and Board of Aldermen for proper review. The site plan will be reviewed and a determination will be made as to whether the plan is consistent with the intent and standards of the mixed use district and whether the development of the tract serves the public welfare. C. Permitted Uses. The following uses are permitted in the Mixed Use Zoning District: 1. Single-family detached residential 2. Multi-family residential (Including apartments and condominiums) 3. Government administrative services 4. Ambulance services 5. Fire and Police protection services 6. Cultural facilities. Art galleries, museums, theaters, libraries, and other uses similar in character to those listed. 7. Administrative and business offices 8. Medical services 9. Personal services – such as copy and mail centers, dry cleaning and other similar uses. 10. Neighborhood Retail uses as listed in the C-1 District 11. Retail Professional services 12. Sign(s), (as permitted in the City of Acworth Sign Ordinance) 13. Senior Living Communities (following the requirements of Section 50.16, SLC, Senior Living Community District) 14. Eating and drinking establishments, Outdoor dining facilities may encroach into required setbacks only upon approval from the Fire Department, Public Works Department and Planning and Zoning. (Must meet Chapter 6 of the City Code)  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 92 11/18/21   15. Private parks and playgrounds including Commercial Recreation Facilities (indoor and outdoor). 16. Athletic and health clubs. 17. Barber and beauty shops. 18. Grocery and food stores up to 20,000 square feet. The following uses are prohibited when located within a mixed use development that contains residential uses (single- or multiple-family): 1. Animal grooming, animal hospitals, animal sales 2. Drive-through services associated with any restaurant use 3. Service Stations, including auto repair and maintenance 4. New or used automobile or truck sales facilities  D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. 1. Hotels and motels for Mixed-Use sites over 20 acres. 2. Religious Institutions over 5 acres. 3. Townhomes meeting the standards in Section 77. 4. Cottage Style Development, provided: a) Minimum lot dimension: 45’ x 120’; b) Green space to be provided within the development shall have a total area not less than 15% of the development’s buildable total land area. Said green space shall be designed to accommodate its use for passive or active recreation; c) Minimum unit size 1,600 square feet; d) Maximum unit size 2,000 square feet; e) Maximum unit height 1½ story; f) Setbacks: Front: 20 feet (with the garage portion of the home no less than twenty- five (25) feet from the back of the curb) Minor Side: Minimum 10 feet between structures Major Side: 25 feet Rear: 20 feet Maximum Lot Coverage 40% Maximum Impervious Surface Area per lot 60 % g) Submittal of a Design and Use Plan including, but not limited to: 1. Architectural upgrades such as carriage style garage doors, upgraded exterior building materials such as stone, brick or other comparable material, doors, windows and patios;  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 93 11/18/21   2. Renderings and/or narrative descriptions of the interior features of buildings, including the floor area of units, floor plan, ceiling height, flooring materials, kitchen and bath features, and information on trim/finish details; 3. A plan for the development and long-term maintenance of all common areas and facilities (including private streets and parking areas, detention areas, green spaces); 4. The proposed documents for the homeowners or condominium association, which shall include covenants related to maintenance of units, dues and fees, exterior storage and appearance, restrictions on rental occupancy. All such documents shall be reviewed and approved by the City. 5. Breweries, Brew Pubs, Distilleries and Farm Wineries, provided: a) Any new construction or land improvements shall be approved site plan specific. b) All manufacturing activities shall be conducted within a wholly enclosed building. 6. Special Events Facilities. E. Use Ratios. In general, proposed mixed use developments shall adhere to the types established in the Acworth Future Land Use Map. The types and requirements are as follows:  1. Single-family (SF) mixed use: detached and attached single-family residential structures shall be the dominant use, comprising the largest percentage of total building floor area. 2. Multi-family (MF) mixed use: multi-family residential structure(s) shall be the dominant use, comprising the largest percentage of total building floor area. 3. Commercial mixed use: commercial structures shall be the dominant use, comprising the largest percentage of total building floor area. 4. Office mixed use: professional office structures shall be the dominant use, comprising the largest percentage of total building floor area. In developments with two (2) uses, no use shall occupy less than twenty five percent (25%) of the either the total building floor area or twenty five percent of the overall acreage. In developments with three uses (3), no use shall occupy less than (Add) either twenty percent (20%) of the total building floor area or twenty percent (20%) of the overall acreage. In developments with four (4) or more uses, no use shall occupy less than either fifteen percent (15%) of total building floor area or fifteen percent (15%) of the overall acreage. F. Density. Areas identified in the Acworth Comprehensive Plan for mixed use development and that include a residential component shall be developed under this mixed use zone at a minimum of four (4) net residential units per acre and up to a maximum of twelve (12) net residential units per acre. These units may be any combination of single-family detached, single-family attached, or multi-family. G. Bulk Limits, Lot Area, and Setback Requirements. All mixed use developments shall be planned and constructed on lots at least fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet. Maximum lot coverage: 60% (1 building); 75% (2 or more buildings) Minimum undisturbed area or replanted area for sites already cleared: 20% (excludes floodplains, stream buffers, and setback buffers) Maximum building height: 40 feet (as measured from street façade) Minimum lot width: 40 feet  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 94 11/18/21   Minimum lot depth: 3 times lot width Maximum building height: 40 feet Front setback: 10 feet facing an internal street 25 feet if a double frontage adjacent to an external, collector or major road Side setback (major): 10 feet Side setback (minor): 10 feet Rear setback: 15 feet Minimum floor area for apartments: 550 square feet for efficiency unit 650 square feet for 1 bedroom unit 900 square feet for 2 bedroom unit 1100 square feet for 3 bedroom unit Minimum floor area for Single Family detached and condominiums: 1200 square feet Floor Area Ratios: At least 25% of MF units must be 900 square feet or above; Up to 25% of MF units may be 600 square feet or less  H. Parking. All off-street parking areas shall be located solely in the side or rear yard areas and excluded from the area between the public right-of-way and the front face of the building. Parking spaces may be located either on or off parcel. Site plans must show proof of spaces, their location in relation to buildings and indicate if spaces are owned or leased. 1. Maximum number of off-street, surface parking spaces for office and industrial uses is one (1) space for every three hundred (300) square feet of building floor space; minimum number of off-street parking spaces for office uses is one (1) space for every five hundred (500) square feet of building floor space. 2. Maximum number of off-street, surface parking spaces for retail and consumer commercial establishments is one (1) space for every two hundred (200) for retail, one hundred fifty (150) for restaurant square feet of building floor area; minimum number of off-street parking spaces for retail and consumer establishments is one (1) space for every five hundred (500) square feet of building floor area. 3. Maximum number of off-street, surface parking spaces for residential dwelling units shall be one and three quarters (1.75) spaces within three hundred (300) feet of each unit, excluding on-street parking; minimum number of off-street parking spaces for each dwelling unit shall be one space within three hundred (300) feet of the unit, excluding on-street parking. 4. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 5. Minimum number of bicycle parking spaces shall be one (1) space for every thirty (30) automobile spaces. In no case shall a mixed use development provide fewer than three (3) bicycle spaces. 6. Parking incentives- Commercial maximums may be increased by a ratio of 1.5 % if developer provides at least 20% pervious spaces (as defined in SECTION 87 Overflow parking standards) or 20% of the spaces are shared spaces with residential mix (exclusive of the residential parking space minimum. 7. If a developer chooses to construct a parking deck as part of a mixed-use development, the maximum requirements for off-street parking shall not apply. Decks can include as many parking spaces as possible, provided the exterior of the structure fits the same dimensions as other permanent structures,  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 95 11/18/21   meaning they must conform to setbacks, height limitations, and lot coverage. 8. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. I. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. In general, the areas between the public rights-of-way and parking facilities or buildings shall be landscaped with deciduous trees and planter boxes or beds, using standards established in City of Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Ordinance, “Tree Protection and Landscaping”. The following additional landscape stipulations shall be required for mixed-use developments. 1. In order to reduce problems associated with runoff and water supply contamination, innovative stormwater management techniques shall be used in all mixed use district developments. This could include porous pavement and/or perforated brick or block, ground swales, reconstructed wetlands, depressions, etc. In no instance shall a retention pond be constructed as the sole means of controlling stormwater. 2. A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the gross area of the development site must be set aside as permanent undisturbed greenspace (or replanted area for sites already cleared). This percentage cannot include space within wetland, stream, or setback buffers. 3. (3) All off-street parking areas shall be set back a minimum of fifteen (15) feet from all other property lines, and at least ten (10) feet from any public right-of-way. 4. (4) A buffer between a mixed use development and any surrounding residential developments shall be provided in the form of a minimum ten (10) foot wide, ten (10) foot tall landscaped area that includes native species trees, shrubs, flowers, and grasses 5. (5) Pedestrian pathways and sidewalks shall provide safe and aesthetically pleasing means of on-site movement and shall be an integral part of overall site design. Pedestrian pathways to buildings, parking areas, and other amenities shall be planned and installed in all developments. Sidewalks shall be required along all public roadways abutting the property and shall be a minimum of five (5) feet in width, paved, and shall include a minimum five (5) foot wide landscape buffer between the edge of the sidewalk and the boundary of the public roadway. J. Lighting. Lighting shall provide for the safe illumination of the site in order to maintain pedestrian and vehicle safety, security, and design accentuation. Building illumination and architectural lighting shall be indirect in character. Architectural lighting shall articulate the particular building design as well as provide the required functional lighting for safety of pedestrian movement. Pedestrian pathway lighting shall clearly identify the pedestrian walkway and direction of travel. All lighting shall be shown on site plans in sufficient detail to allow determination of the effects of such lighting upon adjacent properties and traffic. K. Design Provisions. It is the intent of the mixed use district to provide an environment of high quality building and landscape design. Special emphasis shall be placed upon methods that tend to reduce the overwhelming visual impact of large buildings, encourage tasteful, imaginative design for individual buildings, and create a complex of buildings compatible with the streetscape and neighboring areas in terms of design, scale, and use. 1. Innovative and beautiful design is encouraged and welcomed as a means to enhance the overall quality of the built environment. 2. Minimum conflict shall exist between service vehicles, private automobiles, and pedestrians within the site. 3. Building entries shall be readily identifiable and accessible, with at least one (1) main entrance facing  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 96 11/18/21   and opening directly onto a connecting walkway with pedestrian frontage. 4. Building materials shall blend with those existing on adjacent properties. 5. There shall be structural variations in roof lines to reduce the massive scale of structures and add visual interest. 6. All building facades facing public rights-of-way shall have at least thirty (30%) percent fenestration. L. Accessory Structures. 1. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 97 11/18/21     c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 98 11/18/21   50.16 SLC, Senior Living Community  A. Purpose and Intent. The SLC district is intended to provide opportunities for development of residential facilities, to include assisted and independent, for residents aged 55 years and older. These areas are established to provide senior housing designed in a compatible and complementary manner so as to function as a singular and integrated land use. This zoning district may serve as a transitional zone between commercial/office uses and residential districts of a lesser intensity. B. Effect and Procedure. The site plan for development within the Senior Living Community District shall be in conjunction with a master development plan approved by the Board of Planning and Zoning and the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. The owner and/or developer of the tract of land proposed to be included in the development shall file a general site plan with the Zoning Administrator for recommendation to the Boards of Planning and Zoning and Aldermen. The plan shall contain information and representations required or deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator, Public Works Director, Board of Planning and Zoning, and Board of Aldermen for proper review. The site plan will be reviewed and a determination will be made as to whether the plan is consistent with the intent and standards of the Senior Living Community District and whether the development of the property serves the public welfare. C. Permitted Uses. The following uses are permitted in the Senior Living Community District: 1. Senior Independent Living Facilities 2. Assisted Living Facilities  D. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Zoning Administrator. Not applicable in this district. E. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. Not applicable in this district. F. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 2. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 4. No accessory structure may exceed the mean height of the principal building. 5. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 6. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 99 11/18/21   which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. G. Use Limitations. 1. There shall not be a similar age restricted residential facility located on property within a 500 hundred radial foot perimeter of the subject property. 2. Requires all State of Georgia licenses and permits prior to certificate of occupancy. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 100 11/18/21   3. If a single multi-tenant structure is proposed, all units must be accessed through a central lobby. 4. If a single multi-tenant structure is proposed, each facility shall include a central gathering area for dining, residents’ activities and socializing, including but not limited to a media room, community center, fitness room, and a guest reception area for residents to meet visitors. 5. Each individual independent living residential unit within the facility shall have a kitchen. 6. A binding legal instrument of deed restriction that prevents the facility from future conversion into non-age restricted apartments, condominiums or other type of development shall be placed on the property concurrent with the issuance of a land disturbance permit. H. Bulk and Area Regulations. Minimum Tract Size: 5 acres (if located within the City’s designated Redevelopment Area, the minimum tract size shall be no less than 3 acres) Minimum Tract Width: 100 ft. Maximum Density: As approved by Mayor and Aldermen Maximum Building Height: 3 to 10 acre site – 3 stories (if located within the City’s designated Redevelopment Area, the maximum height may increase to 4 stories) Greater than 10 acres – 4 stories Maximum Building Coverage: 60% Maximum Impervious Surface: 75% Minimum Parking Required (Independent Living) Studio or 1-bedroom units, 1.0 spaces/unit 2-bedroom units, 1.2 spaces/unit In addition – one guest space provided for each 5 dwelling units In addition – one space provided for each employee Minimum Parking Required (Assisted Living) 0.4 parking spaces per dwelling unit In addition – one guest space provided for each 5 dwelling units In addition – one space provided for each employee Front Setback (arterial): 45 ft. Front Setback (other): 35 ft. Side Setback (major): 35 ft. Side Setback (minor): 25 ft. Rear Setback: 40 ft. I. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. When a SLC District abuts a single family residential district or use, a 30 foot greenbelt buffer shall be established. When abutting all other zoning districts, a 25 foot greenbelt buffer shall be established. Such buffer shall be undisturbed where practical or enhanced where devoid of significant vegetation and must include a solid fence no less than six feet in height (finished side to the exterior). If located within the City’s designated Redevelopment Area, the buffer may be reduced to incorporate solid fencing and enhanced plantings. This shall be determined by staff on a case by case basis. J. Bulk and Area Regulations – Exceptions. 1. Relationship to Redevelopment Strategies When the proposed SLC District is located within an area designated by the City of Acworth as a redevelopment area, City staff may recommend reductions in selected bulk and area requirements, increases in the ratio of lot coverage, building height, increases in the number of units and adjustments to the requirement for fences. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 101 11/18/21   2. Parking a. For assisted living and nursing home SLC developments, City staff may recommend reductions in the number of required parking spaces. b. For independent living SLC developments that provide permanent shuttle, van or bus for residents’ use, City staff may recommend reductions in the number of required parking spaces. c. Mixed-use developments may be given consideration for shared parking. K. Open Space Requirement: a. A minimum of 100 square feet of common useable space area per residential unit shall be provided and may be combined with indoor and outdoor use. Indoor common areas and amenities to facilitate program activities may be counted towards this requirement up to a maximum of 75% of the total open space area required. b. Interior areas provided shall include a central gathering area for dining, residents’ activities and socializing, including but not limited to a media room, community center, fitness room, and a guest reception area for residents to meet visitors. c. Outdoor areas provided shall be designed to provide amenities and recreational areas compatible with the needs of the residents, such as pathways and sitting areas, flower or vegetable gardens, or similar active or passive recreation areas. d. Where additional building stories prohibit easy access to open space areas on the ground floor, open roof decks, balconies, or lanais shall be provided. e. The proposed improvement of all required open space shall be clearly designated on the plans submitted with the conceptual plan, and upon the approval of said plans, shall be considered a required part of the land use, site and structural improvements. L. Site Plan A site analysis map shall be required concurrent with the submission of a site concept plan. The purpose of the site analysis map is to ensure that the important site features have been adequately identified prior to the creation of the site design, and that the proposed green space will meet the requirements of this article. The required conceptual site plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include, at a minimum, the following features: 1. Property boundaries; 2. All streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands and other hydrologic features; 3. Topographic contours of no less than (2)-foot intervals; 4. Complete chart of calculations illustrating full compliance with regulations; 5. General vegetation characteristics; 6. General soil types; 7. Existing roads and structures; 8. Potential connections with existing green space and trails. 9. Proposed roads, alleys, sidewalks, trails 10. Lot configuration/layout, including setback lines 11. Proposed detention areas 12. Proposed amenity areas 13. Example building footprint layout 14. Surrounding property owners 15. Zoning information (current and proposed) for the subject property and current zoning information for the surrounding parcels 16. Estimated impervious surface calculation for the development 17. Unit count 18. Parking spaces with typical dimensions 19. Building elevations  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 102 11/18/21   20. Curbing and traffic flow directional arrows 21. Notation of any “green” improvements (ie: LEED) 22. Location of proposed signage, including identifying monument signage 23. Notation of water quality measures (ie: oil/water separator) for storm water management  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 103 11/18/21   50.17 RRX, Railroads and Railroad Crossings  A. Purpose and Intent The RRX, Railroads and railroad crossings, district is intended to identify and provide suitable areas for railroad-related transportation purposes; as well as to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public from distracting signs and advertising. B. Permitted Uses 1. Railroads and railroad-related transportation purposes. 2. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Zoning Administrator 1. Not applicable in this district. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen. 1. Not applicable in this district. E. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal structure. 2. When an accessory structure is attached to the principal structure in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. No accessory structure shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal structure, nor shall it contain a greater floor area than the principal structure. 4. No accessory structure may exceed the more restrictive of either 15 feet or the height of the principal structure. 5. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 104 11/18/21     b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations. 1. Limitation on signs: a) No general advertising sign or off premises sign, or any digital general advertising sign or digital off premises sign, is allowed. G. Bulk and Area Regulations. Bulk and area standards are not applicable in this district. H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 105 11/18/21   50.18 PPF, Public Parks and Facilities  A. Purpose and Intent The PPF, Public Parks and Facilities, district is intended to identify and provide suitable areas for public parks and public facility purposes including, but not limited to open space, parks, playgrounds, trails and structures designed for public use or recreation. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Public Lakes and beaches. 2. Public Natural open space. 3. Public Developed parks and/or playground facilities. 4. Public use buildings including, but not limited to, administrative or recreation. 5. Public Golf Courses. 6. Public campgrounds. 7. Trail head facilities open to the public. 8. Trails for pedestrian or non-motorized open to the public vehicles. 9. Boat mooring facilities open to the public. 10. Parking lot open to the public. 11. Cemetery open to the public. 12. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any legal permitted use. 13. Other uses which are substantially similar in character and impact to those uses enumerated above. D. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Not applicable in this district. I. Special Uses Permitted by the Board of Aldermen. 1. Not applicable in this district. J. Accessory Structures. 1. All such structures shall be located upon the same lot and to the side or rear of the principal use at least 5 feet from side or rear lot lines. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal structure. 2. When an accessory structure is attached to the principal structure in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 3. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 106 11/18/21     b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. G. Use Limitations. Not applicable in this district. H. Bulk and Area Regulations. Bulk and area standards are not applicable in this district. I. Landscape and Buffer Requirements. Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 107 11/18/21   50.18 A/R-20, Single Family Residential  A. Purpose and Intent. The A/R-20 district is established to provide locations for single-family residential uses or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses which are within or on the edge of properties delineated for any residential category as defined and shown on the Cobb County Comprehensive Plan: A Policy Guide, adopted November 27, 1990. When residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses are developed within the A/R-20 district, they should be designed and built to ensure intensity and density compatibility with adjacent single-family detached dwellings and otherwise to implement the stated purpose and intent of this chapter. This district is reserved for properties located in the northern Cobb Parkway Corridor as identified in City of Acworth Resolution No. RS2015-06. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Clubs or lodges (noncommercial). 2. Cottage food operators as regulated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture in accordance with its Rules, Chapter 40-7-19, as may be amended from time to time subject to the following requirements: a) There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator. b) Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely delivers mail/internet order products to residents. c) No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier. d) There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 3. Golf courses, public and private. 4. Livestock, nondomestic and wild animals, and poultry. 5. Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes. 6. Parking for vehicles. 7. Private parks. 8. Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas, subject to section 134-273. 9. Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses. 10. Residential, agricultural, farm and wood products and livestock and poultry sales. 11. Riding stables (minimum 2 acres). 12. Single-family dwelling units (detached). 13. Temporary uses. C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Guest homes, garage apartments and servant quarters, provided: a) Such structure is located to the rear of the principal structure and no less than 20 feet from any property line and 10 feet from the principal building. b) Such structure has 5000 square feet of lot area dedicated to its use in addition to the district requirements for the principal use. c) No paying guests or tenants are housed. d) No other similar use or structure is located on the lot. e) The building’s height and/or area do not exceed that of the principal building. 2. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 3. Garage Sales, provided: e) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. f) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 108 11/18/21   g) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. h) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. 2. Cemeteries and mausoleums, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) A 25 foot undisturbed buffer be established around the perimeter of the use with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. c) All buildings must be set back at least 25 feet from the buffer. d) All graves be set back 10 feet from the buffer. e) No graves may be placed within any required setback. f) Funeral homes and mausoleums must have 20,000 square feet dedicated solely to their use. 3. Special Event Home, provided: a) Establishment must be on a minimum of a two (2) acre site. b) A maximum of 3,000 square feet may be dedicated to the reception floor area. c) Trash receptacles must be located in a rear or side yard and shall be screened on all sides. Garbage shall be collected only during the daytime hours of 9 am. And 5 pm. d) All applicants shall comply with the City of Acworth noise Ordinance. e) Such use is required to supply one (1) parking space for every three persons of capacity or per every (10) ten square feet of gross reception floor area of the facility. The parking area is not required to be paved but must be an improved surface approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. Only 20 percent of the parking may be off-site. f) Capacity of the Special Events Home will be limited to three hundred (300) persons. g) There shall be no retail sale of food or alcohol. h) The commercial operations of the facility shall not operate between 12 am. And 9 am. i) The facility must be a single family home and can be mixed-use. j) Facility should only be located in appropriate areas of the City and not have a negative impact on surrounding properties. k) If the facility ceases to operate as a Special Events Home for a period of six (6) consecutive months, the property shall lose its approval as a Special Events Home. 4. Bed and Breakfast, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 109 11/18/21   g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. E. Accessory Structures 1) Any accessory building, structure, use and deck up to 144 total gross square feet must be located at least five feet off the property line and limited to 15 feet in height subject to the development conditions list below (except for 15-foot height restriction). Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 144 total gross square feet and up to 650 total gross square feet shall be limited to the building setbacks of the lot it is located on and is subject to the development conditions below. Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 650 total gross square feet must be at least 100 feet from any property line and is subject to the development conditions below. a) Accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be subject to the following development conditions: b) Maximum height is two stories or 35 feet. c) Buildings or structures shall have the meaning as defined in section 134-1. Accessory structures and uses shall also include Jacuzzis, tennis courts, basketball courts, swimming pools (private), playhouses and playgrounds. When calculating square footage for ground level uses such as tennis courts, basketball courts and above ground swimming pools and the like, the footprint shall be used in calculating total gross square feet. d) All accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be located to the rear of the principal building, except for heating and air conditioning units or garbage pads, which may be located on the side of the primary structure and located within two feet of the primary structure. e) The rear of the primary structure shall be where the main portion of the building ends without consideration of wings. f) Architectural style and design are to be approved by the division manager of zoning or his designee, and are to be complimentary to the primary structure. g) Such structures or buildings shall be located on the same lot as and to the rear of the primary structure to which they are accessory. Uncovered decks that are attached to the primary structure may be located to the rear or side of the principal building. Covered decks, covered patios, and covered steps shall adhere to the building setbacks of the primary structure. h) No accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be constructed upon a lot until construction of the principal building has commenced. i) On a corner lot, no accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be located closer to the side street right-of-way line than the principal building. j) If the garage, accessory building, structure, use or deck is attached to the primary structure by a breezeway it shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to which it is attached. The breezeway may be enclosed or open. k) When an accessory building is intended to be habitable it shall be attached to the principal structure by a fully enclosed heated/cooled hallway and it shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building to which it is accessory. The accessory building, structure or use shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to which it is attached. l) All accessory buildings, structures and uses in excess of 650 gross square feet shall be required to submit for plan review through the community development department or  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 110 11/18/21   receive approval from the director of the community development department or zoning division manager, or their designees. m) The primary structure in a residential district shall be the principle house on the lot. 2) In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 3) When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 4) No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 5) No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 6) The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 7) Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self-latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 8) Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 9) Neighborhood recreation centers, amenities and swimming pools are subject to the following: a) Site plans must be approved by the zoning staff to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and provisions of this chapter. The facility should be designed to include a detailed landscape plan that provides adequate screening of the facility which creates a visual and sound buffer for adjacent properties. The landscape plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include plant identification by common name. The facility shall be designed to accommodate no more than those residing within two adjoining residential developments except in those cases where a variance is obtained as in other cases. b) Buildings and structures established in connection with such use shall be set back not less than 100 feet from any property line. c) Upon written consent of all owners of property within 100 feet of the building or structure, the setback may be reduced to 50 feet from any exterior property line of the subdivision within which the use is located. Additionally, a detailed landscape plan must be submitted to and approved by the planning and zoning staff. d) The setback may be reduced to 20 feet from an interior property line of the property on which the use is located if a ten-foot landscaped buffer is provided along the property line and a six- foot solid wood or masonry fence is erected and maintained along the line so as to provide a visual and noise screen for adjacent property; provided, however, the setback after reduction shall not be less than 100 feet from an exterior property line. Such landscaped buffer shall be shown on the landscaping plan and must be approved by the planning and zoning staff. e) When a property line is on a natural waterway, a property line setback may be waived provided a written waiver is obtained from both the community development department and the planning division and zoning division. f) Swimming pools must comply with all applicable ordinances and must have necessary approvals from the health department and building inspections department. g) Outdoor activity shall cease by 11:00 p.m. h) Lighting shall be established in such a way that values or quiet use and enjoyment of adjacent properties are not adversely affected, and that roadways and safe use thereof are not adversely affected. No direct light shall be cast upon adjacent properties or roadways. If lighting is to be established, the use of environmental or cutoff type fixtures only is permissible. If lighting is to be established in a recreation area adjacent to an existing or proposed county public road, a lighting plan must be submitted and approved by the county department of transportation to ensure that no light is cast upon the roadway and that no adverse impact will be created as a result of the lighting. i) No residence or structures shall be built upon any adjacent lot within the development within which the facility is located until construction of the recreation area has commenced to the extent that buyers of adjacent property will be aware of where the recreation area will be  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 111 11/18/21   located. j) Parking requirements are as follows: i. A minimum of one space per five residences. ii. Parking spaces shall be paved and striped according to county standard 114, Parking Specifications, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. No parking shall be allowed within a front yard setback. 10. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 112 11/18/21     c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations 1. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right- of-way. 3. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 4. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 5. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 6. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. 7. No sale of goods or products shall be permitted except if accessory to a customary home occupation, land use permit, special land use permit or special exception use. 8. Maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 35 percent. Pervious pavement system and/or green roofs are considered 60 percent effective impervious and will be calculated as such when determining maximum impervious surface. In no case shall total pavement and roof areas (pervious and impervious) exceed 40 percent. An undisturbed buffer equal to the required rear yard setback for this zoning district shall be established along the perimeter boundaries during construction until certificates of occupancy for affected lots are obtained. In the event that this undisturbed perimeter buffer conflicts with any required building setbacks, the required building setbacks may be altered by the zoning division manager or his/her designee, so to accommodate the 40-foot undisturbed  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 113 11/18/21   perimeter buffer. The following uses shall be allowed within the undisturbed perimeter buffer (after certificates of occupancy are issued): public and private utilities, detention facilities, access drives, pools, decks, gazebos and fences. These uses shall not be allowed if an undisturbed buffer is stipulated by the board of commissioners. Required buffers may be included within required setbacks; however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to. Additionally, necessary private utilities and access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over or across a designated undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification. G. Bulk and Area Regulations Minimum Lot Size: 20,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 75 ft./50 ft. for a cul-de- sac Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Front Setback (arterial): 40 ft. Front Setback (other): 35 ft. Side Setback (major): 25 ft. Side Setback (minor): 10 ft. Rear Setback: 35 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 114 11/18/21   50.20 A/R-30, North Single Family Residential A. Purpose and Intent. The A/R-30 district is established to provide locations for single-family residential uses or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses which are within or on the edge of properties delineated for any residential category as defined and shown on the Cobb County Comprehensive Plan: A Policy Guide, adopted November 27, 1990. When residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses are developed within the R-30 district, they should be designed and built to ensure intensity and density compatibility with adjacent single-family detached dwellings and otherwise to implement the stated purpose and intent of this chapter. This district is reserved for properties located in the northern Cobb Parkway Corridor as identified in City of Acworth Resolution No. RS2015-06. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Clubs or lodges (noncommercial). 2. Cottage food operators as regulated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture in accordance with its Rules, Chapter 40-7-19, as may be amended from time to time subject to the following requirements: a) There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator. b) Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely delivers mail/internet order products to residents. c) No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier. d) There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 3. Golf courses, public and private. 4. Livestock, nondomestic and wild animals, and poultry. 5. Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes. 6. Parking for vehicles. 7. Private parks. 8. Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas, subject to section 134-273. 9. Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses. 10. Residential, agricultural, farm and wood products and livestock and poultry sales. 11. Riding stables (minimum 2 acres). 12. Single-family dwelling units (detached). 13. Temporary uses. C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Guest homes, garage apartments and servant quarters, provided: a) Such structure is located to the rear of the principal structure and no less than 20 feet from any property line and 10 feet from the principal building. b) Such structure has 5000 square feet of lot area dedicated to its use in addition to the district requirements for the principal use. c) No paying guests or tenants are housed. d) No other similar use or structure is located on the lot. e) The building’s height and/or area do not exceed that of the principal building. 2. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 3. Garage Sales, provided: a) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. b) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. c) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 115 11/18/21   d) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. 2. Cemeteries and mausoleums, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) A 25 foot undisturbed buffer be established around the perimeter of the use with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. c) All buildings must be set back at least 25 feet from the buffer. d) All graves be set back 10 feet from the buffer. e) No graves may be placed within any required setback. f) Funeral homes and mausoleums must have 20,000 square feet dedicated solely to their use. 3. Special Event Home, provided: a) Establishment must be on a minimum of a two (2) acre site. b) A maximum of 3,000 square feet may be dedicated to the reception floor area. c) Trash receptacles must be located in a rear or side yard and shall be screened on all sides. Garbage shall be collected only during the daytime hours of 9 am. And 5 pm. d) All applicants shall comply with the City of Acworth noise Ordinance. e) Such use is required to supply one (1) parking space for every three persons of capacity or per every (10) ten square feet of gross reception floor area of the facility. The parking area is not required to be paved but must be an improved surface approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. Only 20 percent of the parking may be off-site. f) Capacity of the Special Events Home will be limited to three hundred (300) persons. g) There shall be no retail sale of food or alcohol. h) The commercial operations of the facility shall not operate between 12 am. And 9 am. i) The facility must be a single family home and can be mixed-use. j) Facility should only be located in appropriate areas of the City and not have a negative impact on surrounding properties. k) If the facility ceases to operate as a Special Events Home for a period of six (6) consecutive months, the property shall lose its approval as a Special Events Home. 4. Bed and Breakfast, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and,  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 116 11/18/21   if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. E. Accessory Structures 1. Any accessory building, structure, use and deck up to 144 total gross square feet must be located at least five feet off the property line and limited to 15 feet in height subject to the development conditions list below (except for 15-foot height restriction). Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 144 total gross square feet and up to 650 total gross square feet shall be limited to the building setbacks of the lot it is located on and is subject to the development conditions below. Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 650 total gross square feet must be at least 100 feet from any property line and is subject to the development conditions below. a) Accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be subject to the following development conditions: b) Maximum height is two stories or 35 feet. c) Buildings or structures shall have the meaning as defined in section 134-1. Accessory structures and uses shall also include Jacuzzis, tennis courts, basketball courts, swimming pools (private), playhouses and playgrounds. When calculating square footage for ground level uses such as tennis courts, basketball courts and above ground swimming pools and the like, the footprint shall be used in calculating total gross square feet. d) All accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be located to the rear of the principal building, except for heating and air conditioning units or garbage pads, which may be located on the side of the primary structure and located within two feet of the primary structure. e) The rear of the primary structure shall be where the main portion of the building ends without consideration of wings. f) Architectural style and design are to be approved by the division manager of zoning or his designee, and are to be complimentary to the primary structure. g) Such structures or buildings shall be located on the same lot as and to the rear of the primary structure to which they are accessory. Uncovered decks that are attached to the primary structure may be located to the rear or side of the principal building. Covered decks, covered patios, and covered steps shall adhere to the building setbacks of the primary structure. h) No accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be constructed upon a lot until construction of the principal building has commenced. i) On a corner lot, no accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be located closer to the side street right-of-way line than the principal building. j) If the garage, accessory building, structure, use or deck is attached to the primary structure by a breezeway it shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to which it is attached. The breezeway may be enclosed or open. k) When an accessory building is intended to be habitable it shall be attached to the principal structure by a fully enclosed heated/cooled hallway and it shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building to which it is accessory. The accessory building, structure or use shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to which it is attached. l) All accessory buildings, structures and uses in excess of 650 gross square feet shall be required to submit for plan review through the community development department or receive approval from the director of the community development department or zoning  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 117 11/18/21   division manager, or their designees. m) The primary structure in a residential district shall be the principle house on the lot. 2. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 3. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 4. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 5. No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 6. The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 7. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self-latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 8. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 9. Neighborhood recreation centers, amenities and swimming pools are subject to the following: a) Site plans must be approved by the zoning staff to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and provisions of this chapter. The facility should be designed to include a detailed landscape plan that provides adequate screening of the facility which creates a visual and sound buffer for adjacent properties. The landscape plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include plant identification by common name. The facility shall be designed to accommodate no more than those residing within two adjoining residential developments except in those cases where a variance is obtained as in other cases. b) Buildings and structures established in connection with such use shall be set back not less than 100 feet from any property line. c) Upon written consent of all owners of property within 100 feet of the building or structure, the setback may be reduced to 50 feet from any exterior property line of the subdivision within which the use is located. Additionally, a detailed landscape plan must be submitted to and approved by the planning and zoning staff. d) The setback may be reduced to 20 feet from an interior property line of the property on which the use is located if a ten-foot landscaped buffer is provided along the property line and a six- foot solid wood or masonry fence is erected and maintained along the line so as to provide a visual and noise screen for adjacent property; provided, however, the setback after reduction shall not be less than 100 feet from an exterior property line. Such landscaped buffer shall be shown on the landscaping plan and must be approved by the planning and zoning staff. e) When a property line is on a natural waterway, a property line setback may be waived provided a written waiver is obtained from both the community development department and the planning division and zoning division. f) Swimming pools must comply with all applicable ordinances and must have necessary approvals from the health department and building inspections department. g) Outdoor activity shall cease by 11:00 p.m. h) Lighting shall be established in such a way that values or quiet use and enjoyment of adjacent properties are not adversely affected, and that roadways and safe use thereof are not adversely affected. No direct light shall be cast upon adjacent properties or roadways. If lighting is to be established, the use of environmental or cutoff type fixtures only is permissible. If lighting is to be established in a recreation area adjacent to an existing or proposed county public road, a lighting plan must be submitted and approved by the county department of transportation to ensure that no light is cast upon the roadway and that no adverse impact will be created as a result of the lighting. i) No residence or structures shall be built upon any adjacent lot within the development within which the facility is located until construction of the recreation area has commenced to the extent that buyers of adjacent property will be aware of where the recreation area will be located. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 118 11/18/21   j) Parking requirements are as follows: i. A minimum of one space per five residences. ii. Parking spaces shall be paved and striped according to county standard 114, Parking Specifications, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. No parking shall be allowed within a front yard setback. 10. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 119 11/18/21   c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations 1. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right-of-way. 3. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 4. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 5. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 6. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. 7. No sale of goods or products shall be permitted except if accessory to a customary home occupation, land use permit, special land use permit or special exception use. 8. Maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 35 percent. Pervious pavement system and/or green roofs are considered 60 percent effective impervious and will be calculated as such when determining maximum impervious surface. In no case shall total pavement and roof areas (pervious and impervious) exceed 40 percent. An undisturbed buffer equal to the required rear yard setback for this zoning district shall be established along the perimeter boundaries during construction until certificates of occupancy for affected lots are obtained. In the event that this undisturbed perimeter buffer conflicts with any required building setbacks, the required building setbacks may be altered by the zoning division manager or his/her designee, so to accommodate the 40-foot undisturbed perimeter buffer. The following uses shall be allowed within the undisturbed perimeter buffer (after certificates of occupancy are issued): public and private utilities, detention facilities, access drives, pools, decks, gazebos and fences. These uses shall not be allowed if an undisturbed buffer is stipulated by the board of commissioners. Required buffers may be included within required setbacks; however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to. Additionally, necessary private utilities and access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over or across a designated undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 120 11/18/21   G. Bulk and Area Regulations Minimum Lot Size: 30,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 75 ft./50 ft. for a cul-de- sac Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Front Setback (arterial): 50 ft. Front Setback (other): 45 ft. Side Setback (major): 25 ft. Side Setback (minor): 12 ft. Rear Setback: 40 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 121 11/18/21   50.21 A/R-40, Single Family Residential A. Purpose and Intent. The A/R-40 district is established to provide locations for single-family residential uses or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses which are within or on the edge of properties delineated for any residential category as defined and shown on the Cobb County Comprehensive Plan: A Policy Guide, adopted November 27, 1990. When residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses are developed within the R-40 district, they should be designed and built to ensure intensity and density compatibility with adjacent single-family detached dwellings and otherwise to implement the stated purpose and intent of this chapter. This district is reserved for properties located in the northern Cobb Parkway Corridor as identified in City of Acworth Resolution No. RS2015-06  B. Permitted Uses. 1. Clubs or lodges (noncommercial). 2. Cottage food operators as regulated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture in accordance with its Rules, Chapter 40-7-19, as may be amended from time to time subject to the following requirements: a) There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator. b) Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely delivers mail/internet order products to residents. c) No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier. d) There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 3. Golf courses, public and private. 4. Livestock, nondomestic and wild animals, and poultry. 5. Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes. 6. Parking for vehicles. 7. Private parks. 8. Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas, subject to section 134-273. 9. Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses. 10. Residential, agricultural, farm and wood products and livestock and poultry sales. 11. Riding stables (minimum 2 acres). 12. Single-family dwelling units (detached). 13. Temporary uses. C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Guest homes, garage apartments and servant quarters, provided: a) Such structure is located to the rear of the principal structure and no less than 20 feet from any property line and 10 feet from the principal building. b) Such structure has 5000 square feet of lot area dedicated to its use in addition to the district requirements for the principal use. c) No paying guests or tenants are housed. d) No other similar use or structure is located on the lot. e) The building’s height and/or area do not exceed that of the principal building. 2. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 3. Garage Sales, provided: a) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. b) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. c) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 122 11/18/21   d) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. 2. Cemeteries and mausoleums, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) A 25 foot undisturbed buffer be established around the perimeter of the use with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. c) All buildings must be set back at least 25 feet from the buffer. d) All graves be set back 10 feet from the buffer. e) No graves may be placed within any required setback. f) Funeral homes and mausoleums must have 20,000 square feet dedicated solely to their use. 3. Special Event Home, provided: a) Establishment must be on a minimum of a two (2) acre site. b) A maximum of 3,000 square feet may be dedicated to the reception floor area. c) Trash receptacles must be located in a rear or side yard and shall be screened on all sides. Garbage shall be collected only during the daytime hours of 9 am. And 5 pm. d) All applicants shall comply with the City of Acworth noise Ordinance. e) Such use is required to supply one (1) parking space for every three persons of capacity or per every (10) ten square feet of gross reception floor area of the facility. The parking area is not required to be paved but must be an improved surface approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. Only 20 percent of the parking may be off-site. f) Capacity of the Special Events Home will be limited to three hundred (300) persons. g) There shall be no retail sale of food or alcohol. h) The commercial operations of the facility shall not operate between 12 am. And 9 am. i) The facility must be a single family home and can be mixed-use. j) Facility should only be located in appropriate areas of the City and not have a negative impact on surrounding properties. k) If the facility ceases to operate as a Special Events Home for a period of six (6) consecutive months, the property shall lose its approval as a Special Events Home. 4. Bed and Breakfast, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character,  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 123 11/18/21   and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. E. Accessory Structures 1. Any accessory building, structure, use and deck up to 144 total gross square feet must be located at least five feet off the property line and limited to 15 feet in height subject to the development conditions list below (except for 15-foot height restriction). Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 144 total gross square feet and up to 650 total gross square feet shall be limited to the building setbacks of the lot it is located on and is subject to the development conditions below. Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 650 total gross square feet must be at least 100 feet from any property line and is subject to the development conditions below. Accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be subject to the following development conditions: a) Maximum height is two stories or 35 feet. b) Buildings or structures shall have the meaning as defined in section 134-1. Accessory structures and uses shall also include Jacuzzis, tennis courts, basketball courts, swimming pools (private), playhouses and playgrounds. When calculating square footage for ground level uses such as tennis courts, basketball courts and above ground swimming pools and the like, the footprint shall be used in calculating total gross square feet. c) All accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be located to the rear of the principal building, except for heating and air conditioning units or garbage pads, which may be located on the side of the primary structure and located within two feet of the primary structure. d) The rear of the primary structure shall be where the main portion of the building ends without consideration of wings. e) Architectural style and design are to be approved by the division manager of zoning or his designee, and are to be complimentary to the primary structure. f) Such structures or buildings shall be located on the same lot as and to the rear of the primary structure to which they are accessory. Uncovered decks that are attached to the primary structure may be located to the rear or side of the principal building. Covered decks, covered patios, and covered steps shall adhere to the building setbacks of the primary structure. g) No accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be constructed upon a lot until construction of the principal building has commenced. h) On a corner lot, no accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be located closer to the side street right-of-way line than the principal building. i) If the garage, accessory building, structure, use or deck is attached to the primary structure by a breezeway it shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to which it is attached. The breezeway may be enclosed or open. j) When an accessory building is intended to be habitable it shall be attached to the principal structure by a fully enclosed heated/cooled hallway and it shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building to which it is accessory. The accessory building, structure or use shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to which it is attached. k) All accessory buildings, structures and uses in excess of 650 gross square feet shall be required to submit for plan review through the community development department or receive approval from the director of the community development department or zoning  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 124 11/18/21   division manager, or their designees. l) The primary structure in a residential district shall be the principle house on the lot. 2. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 3. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 4. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 5. No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 6. The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 7. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self-latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 8. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 9. Neighborhood recreation centers, amenities and swimming pools are subject to the following: a) Site plans must be approved by the zoning staff to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and provisions of this chapter. The facility should be designed to include a detailed landscape plan that provides adequate screening of the facility which creates a visual and sound buffer for adjacent properties. The landscape plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include plant identification by common name. The facility shall be designed to accommodate no more than those residing within two adjoining residential developments except in those cases where a variance is obtained as in other cases. b) Buildings and structures established in connection with such use shall be set back not less than 100 feet from any property line. c) Upon written consent of all owners of property within 100 feet of the building or structure, the setback may be reduced to 50 feet from any exterior property line of the subdivision within which the use is located. Additionally, a detailed landscape plan must be submitted to and approved by the planning and zoning staff. d) The setback may be reduced to 20 feet from an interior property line of the property on which the use is located if a ten-foot landscaped buffer is provided along the property line and a six- foot solid wood or masonry fence is erected and maintained along the line so as to provide a visual and noise screen for adjacent property; provided, however, the setback after reduction shall not be less than 100 feet from an exterior property line. Such landscaped buffer shall be shown on the landscaping plan and must be approved by the planning and zoning staff. e) When a property line is on a natural waterway, a property line setback may be waived provided a written waiver is obtained from both the community development department and the planning division and zoning division. f) Swimming pools must comply with all applicable ordinances and must have necessary approvals from the health department and building inspections department. g) Outdoor activity shall cease by 11:00 p.m. h) Lighting shall be established in such a way that values or quiet use and enjoyment of adjacent properties are not adversely affected, and that roadways and safe use thereof are not adversely affected. No direct light shall be cast upon adjacent properties or roadways. If lighting is to be established, the use of environmental or cutoff type fixtures only is permissible. If lighting is to be established in a recreation area adjacent to an existing or proposed county public road, a lighting plan must be submitted and approved by the county department of transportation to ensure that no light is cast upon the roadway and that no adverse impact will be created as a result of the lighting. i) No residence or structures shall be built upon any adjacent lot within the development within which the facility is located until construction of the recreation area has commenced to the extent that buyers of adjacent property will be aware of where the recreation area will be located. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 125 11/18/21   j) Parking requirements are as follows: i. A minimum of one space per five residences. ii. Parking spaces shall be paved and striped according to county standard 114, Parking Specifications, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. No parking shall be allowed within a front yard setback. 10. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 126 11/18/21   c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations 1. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right- of-way. 3. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 4. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 5. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 6. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. 7. No sale of goods or products shall be permitted except if accessory to a customary home occupation, land use permit, special land use permit or special exception use. 8. Maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 35 percent. Pervious pavement system and/or green roofs are considered 60 percent effective impervious and will be calculated as such when determining maximum impervious surface. In no case shall total pavement and roof areas (pervious and impervious) exceed 40 percent. An undisturbed buffer equal to the required rear yard setback for this zoning district shall be established along the perimeter boundaries during construction until certificates of occupancy for affected lots are obtained. In the event that this undisturbed perimeter buffer conflicts with any required building setbacks, the required building setbacks may be altered by the zoning division manager or his/her designee, so to accommodate the 40-foot undisturbed perimeter buffer. The following uses shall be allowed within the undisturbed perimeter buffer (after certificates of occupancy are issued): public and private utilities, detention facilities, access drives, pools, decks, gazebos and fences. These uses shall not be allowed if an undisturbed buffer is stipulated by the board of commissioners. Required buffers may be included within required setbacks; however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to. Additionally, necessary private utilities and access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over or across a designated undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification. G. Bulk and Area Regulations  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 127 11/18/21   Minimum Lot Size: 40,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 75 ft./50 ft. for a cul-de- sac Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Front Setback (arterial): 50 ft. Front Setback (other): 45 ft. Side Setback (major): 35 ft. Side Setback (minor): 15 ft. Rear Setback: 40 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 128 11/18/21   50.22 A/RR, Rural Residential A. Purpose and Intent. The A/RR district is established to provide locations for large useable areas for limited residential, agricultural, park and open space needs. This district also serves to correlate growth with utility, service and transportation needs until urbanization is warranted. A/RR uses or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses should be located within or on the edge of properties delineated for any residential category as defined and shown on the Cobb County Comprehensive Plan: A Policy Guide, adopted November 27, 1990. When residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses are developed within the RR district, they should be designed and built to ensure intensity and density compatibility with adjacent single-family detached dwellings and otherwise to implement the stated purpose and intent of this chapter. This district is reserved for properties located in the northern Cobb Parkway Corridor as identified in City of Acworth Resolution No. RS2015-06. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Agricultural produce stands with a minimum of four (4) off street parking spaces. 2. Clubs or lodges (noncommercial). 3. Commercial greenhouses and plant nurseries, so long as set back at least 100 feet from any residential property line. 4. Cottage food operators as regulated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture in accordance with its Rules, Chapter 40-7-19, as may be amended from time to time subject to the following requirements: a) There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator. b) Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely delivers mail/internet order products to residents. c) No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier. d) There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 5. Dairies, so long as buildings used for livestock shall be set back not less than 200 feet from any property line and all animals are maintained at least 100 feet from any property line. 6. Designated recycling collection locations. 7. Farm and garden supply stores. 8. Field crops. 9. Golf courses, public and private. 10. Livestock, nondomestic and wild animals, and poultry. 11. Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes. 12. Parking for vehicles. 13. Private parks. 14. Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas, subject to section 134-273. 15. Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses. 16. Residential, agricultural, farm and wood products and livestock and poultry sales. 17. Riding stables (minimum 2 acres). 18. Single-family dwelling units (detached). 19. Temporary uses. C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Guest homes, garage apartments and servant quarters, provided: a) Such structure is located to the rear of the principal structure and no less than 20 feet from any property line and 10 feet from the principal building. b) Such structure has 5000 square feet of lot area dedicated to its use in addition to the district  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 129 11/18/21   requirements for the principal use. c) No paying guests or tenants are housed. d) No other similar use or structure is located on the lot. e) The building’s height and/or area do not exceed that of the principal building. 2. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 3. Garage Sales, provided: a) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. b) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. c) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. d) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. 2. Cemeteries and mausoleums, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) A 25 foot undisturbed buffer be established around the perimeter of the use with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. c) All buildings must be set back at least 25 feet from the buffer. d) All graves be set back 10 feet from the buffer. e) No graves may be placed within any required setback. f) Funeral homes and mausoleums must have 20,000 square feet dedicated solely to their use. 3. Special Event Home, provided: a) Establishment must be on a minimum of a two (2) acre site. b) A maximum of 3,000 square feet may be dedicated to the reception floor area. c) Trash receptacles must be located in a rear or side yard and shall be screened on all sides. Garbage shall be collected only during the daytime hours of 9 am. And 5 pm. d) All applicants shall comply with the City of Acworth noise Ordinance. e) Such use is required to supply one (1) parking space for every three persons of capacity or per every (10) ten square feet of gross reception floor area of the facility. The parking area is not required to be paved but must be an improved surface approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. Only 20 percent of the parking may be off-site. f) Capacity of the Special Events Home will be limited to three hundred (300) persons. g) There shall be no retail sale of food or alcohol. h) The commercial operations of the facility shall not operate between 12 am. And 9 am. i) The facility must be a single family home and can be mixed-use. j) Facility should only be located in appropriate areas of the City and not have a negative impact on surrounding properties. k) If the facility ceases to operate as a Special Events Home for a period of six (6) consecutive months, the property shall lose its approval as a Special Events Home. 4. Bed and Breakfast, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 130 11/18/21   heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character, and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. E. Accessory Structures 1. Any accessory building, structure, use and deck up to 144 total gross square feet must be located at least five feet off the property line and limited to 15 feet in height subject to the development conditions list below (except for 15-foot height restriction). Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 144 total gross square feet and up to 650 total gross square feet shall be limited to the building setbacks of the lot it is located on and is subject to the development conditions below. Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 650 total gross square feet must be at least 100 feet from any property line and is subject to the development conditions below. a) Accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be subject to the following development conditions: b) Maximum height is two stories or 35 feet. c) Buildings or structures shall have the meaning as defined in section 134-1. Accessory structures and uses shall also include Jacuzzis, tennis courts, basketball courts, swimming pools (private), playhouses and playgrounds. When calculating square footage for ground level uses such as tennis courts, basketball courts and above ground swimming pools and the like, the footprint shall be used in calculating total gross square feet. d) All accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be located to the rear of the principal building, except for heating and air conditioning units or garbage pads, which may be located on the side of the primary structure and located within two feet of the primary structure. e) The rear of the primary structure shall be where the main portion of the building ends without consideration of wings. f) Architectural style and design are to be approved by the division manager of zoning or his designee, and are to be complimentary to the primary structure. g) Such structures or buildings shall be located on the same lot as and to the rear of the primary structure to which they are accessory. Uncovered decks that are attached to the primary structure may be located to the rear or side of the principal building. Covered decks, covered patios, and covered steps shall adhere to the building setbacks of the primary structure. h) No accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be constructed upon a lot until construction of the principal building has commenced. i) On a corner lot, no accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be located closer to the side street right-of-way line than the principal building. j) If the garage, accessory building, structure, use or deck is attached to the primary structure by a breezeway it shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 131 11/18/21   which it is attached. The breezeway may be enclosed or open. k) When an accessory building is intended to be habitable it shall be attached to the principal structure by a fully enclosed heated/cooled hallway and it shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building to which it is accessory. The accessory building, structure or use shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to which it is attached. l) All accessory buildings, structures and uses in excess of 650 gross square feet shall be required to submit for plan review through the community development department or receive approval from the director of the community development department or zoning division manager, or their designees. m) The primary structure in a residential district shall be the principle house on the lot. 2. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 3. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 4. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 5. No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 6. The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 7. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 8. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 9. Neighborhood recreation centers, amenities and swimming pools are subject to the following: a) Site plans must be approved by the zoning staff to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and provisions of this chapter. The facility should be designed to include a detailed landscape plan that provides adequate screening of the facility which creates a visual and sound buffer for adjacent properties. The landscape plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include plant identification by common name. The facility shall be designed to accommodate no more than those residing within two adjoining residential developments except in those cases where a variance is obtained as in other cases. b) Buildings and structures established in connection with such use shall be set back not less than 100 feet from any property line. c) Upon written consent of all owners of property within 100 feet of the building or structure, the setback may be reduced to 50 feet from any exterior property line of the subdivision within which the use is located. Additionally, a detailed landscape plan must be submitted to and approved by the planning and zoning staff. d) The setback may be reduced to 20 feet from an interior property line of the property on which the use is located if a ten-foot landscaped buffer is provided along the property line and a six- foot solid wood or masonry fence is erected and maintained along the line so as to provide a visual and noise screen for adjacent property; provided, however, the setback after reduction shall not be less than 100 feet from an exterior property line. Such landscaped buffer shall be shown on the landscaping plan and must be approved by the planning and zoning staff. e) When a property line is on a natural waterway, a property line setback may be waived provided a written waiver is obtained from both the community development department and the planning division and zoning division. f) Swimming pools must comply with all applicable ordinances and must have necessary approvals from the health department and building inspections department. g) Outdoor activity shall cease by 11:00 p.m. h) Lighting shall be established in such a way that values or quiet use and enjoyment of adjacent properties are not adversely affected, and that roadways and safe use thereof are not adversely affected. No direct light shall be cast upon adjacent properties or roadways. If  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 132 11/18/21   lighting is to be established, the use of environmental or cutoff type fixtures only is permissible. If lighting is to be established in a recreation area adjacent to an existing or proposed county public road, a lighting plan must be submitted and approved by the county department of transportation to ensure that no light is cast upon the roadway and that no adverse impact will be created as a result of the lighting. i) No residence or structures shall be built upon any adjacent lot within the development within which the facility is located until construction of the recreation area has commenced to the extent that buyers of adjacent property will be aware of where the recreation area will be located. j) Parking requirements are as follows: i. A minimum of one space per five residences. ii. Parking spaces shall be paved and striped according to county standard 114, Parking Specifications, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. No parking shall be allowed within a front yard setback. 10. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 133 11/18/21     c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations 1. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right- of-way. 3. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 4. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 5. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 6. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. 7. No sale of goods or products shall be permitted except if accessory to a customary home occupation, land use permit, special land use permit or special exception use. 8. Maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 35 percent. Pervious pavement system and/or green roofs are considered 60 percent effective impervious and will be calculated as such when determining maximum impervious surface. In no case shall total pavement and roof areas (pervious and impervious) exceed 40 percent. An undisturbed buffer equal to the required rear yard setback for this zoning district shall be established along the perimeter boundaries during construction until certificates of occupancy for affected lots are obtained. In the event that this undisturbed perimeter buffer conflicts with any required building setbacks, the required building setbacks may be altered by the zoning division manager or his/her designee, so to accommodate the 40-foot undisturbed  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 134 11/18/21   perimeter buffer. The following uses shall be allowed within the undisturbed perimeter buffer (after certificates of occupancy are issued): public and private utilities, detention facilities, access drives, pools, decks, gazebos and fences. These uses shall not be allowed if an undisturbed buffer is stipulated by the board of commissioners. Required buffers may be included within required setbacks; however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to. Additionally, necessary private utilities and access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over or across a designated undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification. G. Bulk and Area Regulations Minimum Lot Size: 40,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 100 ft. Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Front Setback (arterial): 50 ft. Front Setback (other): 50 ft. Side Setback (major): 25 ft. Side Setback (minor): 25 ft. Rear Setback: 35 ft.  H. Landscape and Buffer Requirements Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 135 11/18/21   50.23 A/R-80, Single Family Residential A. Purpose and Intent. The A/R-80 district is established to provide locations for single-family residential uses or residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses which are within or on the edge of properties delineated for any residential category as defined and shown on the Cobb County Comprehensive Plan: A Policy Guide, adopted November 27, 1990. When residentially compatible institutional and recreational uses are developed within the A/R-80 district, they should be designed and built to ensure intensity and density compatibility with adjacent single-family detached dwellings and otherwise to implement the stated purpose and intent of this chapter. This district is reserved for properties located in the northern Cobb Parkway Corridor as identified in City of Acworth Resolution No. RS2015-06. B. Permitted Uses. 1. Clubs or lodges (noncommercial). 2. Cottage food operators as regulated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture in accordance with its Rules, Chapter 40-7-19, as may be amended from time to time subject to the following requirements: a) There shall be no signage or other exterior evidence of the cottage food operator. b) Deliveries of specialty ingredients such as herbs and spices, etc., limited to those made by the United States Postal Service or other carrier (FedEx, United Parcel Service, etc.) that routinely delivers mail/internet order products to residents. c) No cottage food products prepared by the cottage food operator may be picked up by a commercial carrier. d) There shall be no employees parking on the site unless approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 3. Golf courses, public and private. 4. Livestock, nondomestic and wild animals, and poultry. 5. Nonprofit (seasonal use) fishing lakes. 6. Parking for vehicles. 7. Private parks. 8. Radio, television and other communication towers and antennas, subject to section 134-273. 9. Recreation grounds other than tennis courts and golf courses. 10. Residential, agricultural, farm and wood products and livestock and poultry sales. 11. Riding stables (minimum 2 acres). 12. Single-family dwelling units (detached). 13. Temporary uses. C. Temporary/Conditional Uses Allowed by the Director. 1. Guest homes, garage apartments and servant quarters, provided: a) Such structure is located to the rear of the principal structure and no less than 20 feet from any property line and 10 feet from the principal building. b) Such structure has 5000 square feet of lot area dedicated to its use in addition to the district requirements for the principal use. c) No paying guests or tenants are housed. d) No other similar use or structure is located on the lot. e) The building’s height and/or area do not exceed that of the principal building. 2. Home Occupations (see standards set forth in Section 74). 3. Garage Sales, provided: a) Limited to 3 consecutive days and one event every 3 months. b) No consignment goods may be offered for sale. c) Sales are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 136 11/18/21   d) One sign per property frontage is allowed, maximum 6 square feet in size. D. Special Uses Permitted by Board of Aldermen 1. Religious institutions, including all accessory uses, including, but not limited to, child care centers, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) Accessory schools and cemeteries are permissible provided an additional 3 acres is provided in addition to the 5 acre church requirement. c) All parking areas shall include a 30 foot landscaped buffer when abutting any property used for single family residential purposes. 2. Cemeteries and mausoleums, provided: a) Minimum lot size is 5 acres. b) A 25 foot undisturbed buffer be established around the perimeter of the use with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. c) All buildings must be set back at least 25 feet from the buffer. d) All graves be set back 10 feet from the buffer. e) No graves may be placed within any required setback. f) Funeral homes and mausoleums must have 20,000 square feet dedicated solely to their use. 3. Special Event Home, provided: a) Establishment must be on a minimum of a two (2) acre site. b) A maximum of 3,000 square feet may be dedicated to the reception floor area. c) Trash receptacles must be located in a rear or side yard and shall be screened on all sides. Garbage shall be collected only during the daytime hours of 9 am. And 5 pm. d) All applicants shall comply with the City of Acworth noise Ordinance. e) Such use is required to supply one (1) parking space for every three persons of capacity or per every (10) ten square feet of gross reception floor area of the facility. The parking area is not required to be paved but must be an improved surface approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. Only 20 percent of the parking may be off-site. f) Capacity of the Special Events Home will be limited to three hundred (300) persons. g) There shall be no retail sale of food or alcohol. h) The commercial operations of the facility shall not operate between 12 am. And 9 am. i) The facility must be a single family home and can be mixed-use. j) Facility should only be located in appropriate areas of the City and not have a negative impact on surrounding properties. k) If the facility ceases to operate as a Special Events Home for a period of six (6) consecutive months, the property shall lose its approval as a Special Events Home. 4. Bed and Breakfast, provided: a) The facility is operated by the resident-owner with a maximum of five guestrooms rented for a daily or weekly fee, which use is subordinate and incidental to the primary residence. b) Such use must be located within a historical structure at least 50 years old which is included on the local City register. The structure shall also contain 2,000 square feet or more of gross heated floor area c) No freestanding signs are permitted. All signage must be attached to the structure used for the bed and breakfast house and not exceed six square feet and be indirectly illuminated. d) Food service shall be limited to breakfast only and be served to guests taking lodging in the facility. e) No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any bedroom made available for rent. f) No catering, parties, weddings or special events shall be permitted. g) The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single-family character,  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 137 11/18/21   and, if changes are made, the changes must be approved by City staff. The architectural integrity of the existing interior spaces must be maintained. h) All bed and breakfast houses must meet all applicable health and safety codes. i) Maximum length of stay shall not exceed 14 days. j) A minimum of 1 parking space per rental room is provided in addition to those required for the resident. Parking shall be landscaped as set forth in the Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Standards. E. Accessory Structures 1. Any accessory building, structure, use and deck up to 144 total gross square feet must be located at least five feet off the property line and limited to 15 feet in height subject to the development conditions list below (except for 15-foot height restriction). Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 144 total gross square feet and up to 650 total gross square feet shall be limited to the building setbacks of the lot it is located on and is subject to the development conditions below. Any accessory building, structure, use and deck over 650 total gross square feet must be at least 100 feet from any property line and is subject to the development conditions below. a) Accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be subject to the following development conditions: b) Maximum height is two stories or 35 feet. c) Buildings or structures shall have the meaning as defined in section 134-1. Accessory structures and uses shall also include Jacuzzis, tennis courts, basketball courts, swimming pools (private), playhouses and playgrounds. When calculating square footage for ground level uses such as tennis courts, basketball courts and above ground swimming pools and the like, the footprint shall be used in calculating total gross square feet. d) All accessory buildings, structures, uses and decks shall be located to the rear of the principal building, except for heating and air conditioning units or garbage pads, which may be located on the side of the primary structure and located within two feet of the primary structure. e) The rear of the primary structure shall be where the main portion of the building ends without consideration of wings. f) Architectural style and design are to be approved by the division manager of zoning or his designee, and are to be complimentary to the primary structure. g) Such structures or buildings shall be located on the same lot as and to the rear of the primary structure to which they are accessory. Uncovered decks that are attached to the primary structure may be located to the rear or side of the principal building. Covered decks, covered patios, and covered steps shall adhere to the building setbacks of the primary structure. h) No accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be constructed upon a lot until construction of the principal building has commenced. i) On a corner lot, no accessory building, structure, use or deck shall be located closer to the side street right-of-way line than the principal building. j) If the garage, accessory building, structure, use or deck is attached to the primary structure by a breezeway it shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to which it is attached. The breezeway may be enclosed or open. k) When an accessory building is intended to be habitable it shall be attached to the principal structure by a fully enclosed heated/cooled hallway and it shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building to which it is accessory. The accessory building, structure or use shall be located up to a maximum of 25 feet from the primary structure to which it is attached. l) All accessory buildings, structures and uses in excess of 650 gross square feet shall be required to submit for plan review through the community development department or receive approval from the director of the community development department or zoning  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 138 11/18/21   division manager, or their designees. m) The primary structure in a residential district shall be the principle house on the lot. 2. In cases of corner lots, the accessory structure may not be closer to any right-of-way than the principal building. 3. When an accessory building is attached to the principal building in any manner, it shall be deemed part of the principal structure and subject to all bulk and area requirements of same. 4. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot before the principal building. 5. No accessory structure may exceed twenty (20) feet in height. 6. The area of the accessory building’s footprint may not exceed 50% that of the principal structure. 7. Swimming pools must be enclosed by a fence not less than 5 feet in height with a self-closing, self- latching gate and must comply with all applicable safety and health ordinances. 8. Heating and air conditioning units may encroach 5 feet into the required rear or side setback. 9. Neighborhood recreation centers, amenities and swimming pools are subject to the following: a) Site plans must be approved by the zoning staff to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and provisions of this chapter. The facility should be designed to include a detailed landscape plan that provides adequate screening of the facility which creates a visual and sound buffer for adjacent properties. The landscape plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include plant identification by common name. The facility shall be designed to accommodate no more than those residing within two adjoining residential developments except in those cases where a variance is obtained as in other cases. b) Buildings and structures established in connection with such use shall be set back not less than 100 feet from any property line. c) Upon written consent of all owners of property within 100 feet of the building or structure, the setback may be reduced to 50 feet from any exterior property line of the subdivision within which the use is located. Additionally, a detailed landscape plan must be submitted to and approved by the planning and zoning staff. d) The setback may be reduced to 20 feet from an interior property line of the property on which the use is located if a ten-foot landscaped buffer is provided along the property line and a six- foot solid wood or masonry fence is erected and maintained along the line so as to provide a visual and noise screen for adjacent property; provided, however, the setback after reduction shall not be less than 100 feet from an exterior property line. Such landscaped buffer shall be shown on the landscaping plan and must be approved by the planning and zoning staff. e) When a property line is on a natural waterway, a property line setback may be waived provided a written waiver is obtained from both the community development department and the planning division and zoning division. f) Swimming pools must comply with all applicable ordinances and must have necessary approvals from the health department and building inspections department. g) Outdoor activity shall cease by 11:00 p.m. h) Lighting shall be established in such a way that values or quiet use and enjoyment of adjacent properties are not adversely affected, and that roadways and safe use thereof are not adversely affected. No direct light shall be cast upon adjacent properties or roadways. If lighting is to be established, the use of environmental or cutoff type fixtures only is permissible. If lighting is to be established in a recreation area adjacent to an existing or proposed county public road, a lighting plan must be submitted and approved by the county department of transportation to ensure that no light is cast upon the roadway and that no adverse impact will be created as a result of the lighting. i) No residence or structures shall be built upon any adjacent lot within the development within which the facility is located until construction of the recreation area has commenced to the extent that buyers of adjacent property will be aware of where the recreation area will be located. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 139 11/18/21   j) Parking requirements are as follows: i. A minimum of one space per five residences. ii. Parking spaces shall be paved and striped according to county standard 114, Parking Specifications, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. No parking shall be allowed within a front yard setback. 10. Solar collection devices: a) Solar collection devices, for the purpose of this section, shall pertain to equipment utilized for providing an electric power source to a structure either in part or entirely. This section does not pertain to accent, landscape or exterior lighting devices. b) Solar collection devices may not be mounted to the sides or any other portion of a primary structure other than its roof. c) Roof mounted systems: a. Single family and duplex dwellings: i. No taller than one (1) foot, as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed, unless the roof pitch is 2:12 or less, in such case two (2) feet is permitted. No portion of a solar collection device shall project above the maximum projection line depicted within figures below. b. Non-residential and residential multi-family (excluding single-family or duplex dwellings): i. If < 2:12 pitch roof, no taller than eight (8) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roof below, to which it is installed (see figure below). ii. If 2:12 to 6:12 pitch, no taller than four (4) feet as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below, to which it is installed. iii. If > 6:12 pitch, no taller than two (2) feet, as measured on a vertical axis to the roofline below to which it is installed. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 140 11/18/21   c. All buildings regardless of use – roof mounted solar collection device shall not extend beyond any roof overhang nor shall it extend beyond a horizontal plane as drawn from the highest point of a roof pitch. d) May not be attached to a street facing roof face. e) If ground mounted, solar collection devices shall not exceed five (5) feet in height, must be placed to the side or rear of the primary structure and must be screened from view. F. Use Limitations 1. All outside storage must be stored in a side or rear yard and screened from all streets and adjacent properties by a non-opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height. The Director may approve the substitution of plantings for the required fence. Unenclosed carports and front porches may not be used for storing any materials other than firewood or recyclable materials within a city approved container. 2. A satellite dish with a diameter of 24 inches and under may be attached to the side or rear of the principal structure and encroach 3 feet into the required setback. Larger satellite dishes shall be considered accessory structures (and therefore subject to the standards for same) that must be screened by fencing or vegetation in such a manner that they may not be seen from the public right- of-way. 3. All front, side and rear yards must be planted with sod grass. 4. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 5. No off-street parking space shall be utilized to park buses, tractor-trailers (attached or otherwise) or semi-trailer. 6. Recreational vehicles may be occupied as temporary dwellings as a temporary accessory use for no more than fourteen (14) days within any two-month period, and only if there is a permanent dwelling unit as a principal use on the lot and only if the recreational vehicle is parked in conformance with this Ordinance. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be so occupied on the same lot. 7. No sale of goods or products shall be permitted except if accessory to a customary home occupation, land use permit, special land use permit or special exception use. 8. Maximum impervious surface shall not exceed 35 percent. Pervious pavement system and/or green roofs are considered 60 percent effective impervious and will be calculated as such when determining maximum impervious surface. In no case shall total pavement and roof areas (pervious and impervious) exceed 40 percent. An undisturbed buffer equal to the required rear yard setback for this zoning district shall be established along the perimeter boundaries during construction until certificates of occupancy for affected lots are obtained. In the event that this undisturbed perimeter buffer conflicts with any required building setbacks, the required building setbacks may be altered by the zoning division manager or his/her designee, so to accommodate the 40-foot undisturbed perimeter buffer. The following uses shall be allowed within the undisturbed perimeter buffer (after certificates of occupancy are issued): public and private utilities, detention facilities, access drives, pools, decks, gazebos and fences. These uses shall not be allowed if an undisturbed buffer is stipulated by the board of commissioners. Required buffers may be included within required setbacks; however, in such case that the required buffer is greater than the required setback, the required buffer shall be adhered to. Additionally, necessary private utilities and access drives may be allowed through, over or across a landscaped buffer. Any such uses which are proposed through, over or across a designated undisturbed buffer must be approved pursuant to an original site plan or site plan modification. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 141 11/18/21   H. Bulk and Area Regulations Minimum Lot Size: 80,000 sq. ft. Minimum Lot Width: 75 ft./50 ft. for a cul-de- sac Maximum Building Height: 35 ft. Front Setback (arterial): 60 ft. Front Setback (other): 60 ft. Side Setback (major): 25 ft. Side Setback (minor): 25 ft. Rear Setback: 50 ft. I. Landscape and Buffer Requirements Not applicable in this district. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 142 11/18/21   ARTICLE VI SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS  SECTION 60 Sidewalk Requirements  60.1 . All owners, developers, or occupiers of parcels of land where a development permit or building permit is issued shall be required to provide a sidewalk adjacent to any public street along the entire lot frontage. Pedestrian pathways and sidewalks shall provide safe, all-weather, efficient, and aesthetically pleasing means of inter- and intra-site movement and shall be an integral part of the overall site design concept. Pedestrian pathway connections to parking areas, buildings, other amenities and between on-site and perimeter pedestrian systems shall be planned and installed unless otherwise excepted. 60.2. All paths and sidewalks shall be a minimum of five (5) feet wide and paved. A minimum six (6) foot wide landscape strip should separate paths and sidewalks from the edge of pavement or curbs along public roadways. The landscape strip should be planted with canopy trees spaced a minimum of twenty five (25) feet on center at a rate of one (1) tree for every twenty (25) linear feet of lot frontage. Where a practical difficulty has been identified, the sidewalk shall be installed no closer to the edge of the road or the back of the curb than two (2) feet unless authorized by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. This requirement is waived for one- or two-family dwellings to be constructed on lots in existing subdivisions planned and developed without sidewalks. The requirement for sidewalk installation may be satisfied if the city holds a valid financial guarantee for the future installation of the sidewalks. Sidewalks or other pedestrian ways approved by the Board of Aldermen in conjunction with a subdivision shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance. 60.3. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any new building construction, new parking lot, or other permanent open-air use unless sidewalks meeting the requirements of this section are included on the site plan. Sidewalk installation may be delayed for a period not to exceed six months, provided that a financial guarantee is posted with the City. Acceptable guarantees include an irrevocable letter of credit, certified check, performance bond, or other guarantee acceptable to the City Attorney. Such guarantees shall be equal to one hundred twenty-five (125%) percent of the cost of the materials and installation and shall be accompanied by a written assurance that sidewalk installation will be completed to the satisfaction of the City within a specified period not to exceed six (6) months from the date the certificate of occupancy is issued. 60.4. In such instances that sidewalks can not be installed along public rights of way that are owned by governmental entities other than the City, or when the installation is impracticable due to severe topography changes, the developer may request donation of new sidewalks with the equivalent lineal length on either another section of the development site or on other acceptable public property. The Zoning Administrator shall make the determination of the location. 60.5. For any land or building development where sidewalks are required as outlined above and there is an existing sidewalk along the road or street frontage, an inspection of the sidewalk shall be made by the Zoning Administrator or designated agent. If the inspection shows the sidewalk is deficient or does not exist along the entire frontage, the owner must construct or repair the sidewalk as required by the Zoning Administrator. SECTION 61 Buildings  61.1 Temporary buildings Temporary buildings and trailers shall not be allowed in any district except when utilized for construction site contracting work. Requests to utilize a temporary building pending completion of a permanent  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 143 11/18/21   building may be granted by the Board of Aldermen for a period not to exceed one year. Utility hookups to temporary buildings must be screened from view through fencing or landscaping subject to the discretion of the Administrator. Temporary structures associated with seasonal sales at an individual lot may be approved by the Administrator once per calendar year for a period no longer than 45 consecutive days, subject to concurrence by the Fire Marshall and Public Works Director. 61.2 Requirements for moving a building No dwelling unit or other permanent structure shall be moved within or into the City unless it is first approved by the Administrator who shall verify that it meets all the zoning standards of the district in which the structure will be located. The Public Works Director shall represent the City in all manners pertaining to the actual relocation of the structure. SECTION 62 Fences and Walls  62.1 In all cases a finished side shall be to the exterior. 62.2 No fence or free standing wall in a required yard other than a retaining wall shall be more than 8 feet in height, or be constructed within 2 feet of a public right-of-way. Fences located within the established front setback of residential property shall not exceed 4 feet in height. When this article requires a fence to be constructed, such fence shall be completed prior to occupancy of the primary use structure. 62.3 A fence equipped with or having barbed wire, spikes, or similar device, or electric charge shall not contain said devices within 6 feet of the ground level. 62.4 All swimming pools shall be enclosed by a fence having a height of not less than 5 feet with a self- closing, self-latching gate unless otherwise approved by the Administrator. 62.5 All fences shall be maintained and corrected of any defects including damage, missing portions, or other defects deemed a nuisance. 62.6 Any retaining wall constructed on a property that is four (4) feet in height or higher shall incorporate at the top of said wall, a fence no less than thirty-six (36) inches in height topped with a safety rail. SECTION 63 Buffers  Buffer areas required by this article shall be established and maintained by the property owner and must:  63.1 Be landscaped and maintained as a planted area with trees, shrubs, flowers, grass, stone, rocks, and other landscaping materials. 63.2 Not be used for parking or contain any structure other than a fence or drainage improvement required by the City. Access through a buffer is allowed provided it is perpendicular to the buffer only and is designed so as to cause the least amount of intrusion possible. Bicycle and/or pedestrian paths and greenways are excluded from these restrictions. 63.3 Utilize and preserve the natural topography and growth of the land except that which is necessary to prevent a nuisance, or to thin such natural growth where too dense for normal growth, or to remove diseased or dangerous vegetation. Up to 40% of the required buffer may be cleared for utilization as a slope easement where required to prevent soil erosion subject to the approval of the Administrator who shall determine the minimum area necessary for said easement and the replanting schedule to be followed  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 144 11/18/21   upon completion of the improvements. 63.4 Include a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height if vegetative materials do not provide continuous visual screening. All required fencing shall be installed prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy. See City of Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Ordinance (Tree protection and Landscaping) for a listing of additional requirements pertaining to species and location requirements. 63.5 Any grading, improvements or construction adjacent thereto shall be conducted far enough from the buffer area so as not to disturb or encroach upon the buffer area. 63.6 Buffer area shall not be counted in addition to the setback requirement. 63.7 Buffers need not be established in those instances in which a street separates zoning districts. However, landscaping requirements shall apply (Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Ordinance)  SECTION 64 Fire Safety Requirements Accessibility for fire equipment on hard surfaced sub-base (subgrade plus an asphalt first layer or bound crushed stone) shall be maintained through all stages of construction from the time framing begins. Minimum width of private access driveways within a development, excluding parking, shall be 20 feet and the minimum turning radius shall be 35 feet. Fire hydrants and water service shall be installed to within 300 feet of units under construction before proceeding with framing. SECTION 65 Outside Storage Exterior storage yards (excluding vehicles for sale or lease) shall not be permitted in any districts except the C-2, LI and HI districts. Exterior storage yards shall be enclosed by an opaque fence not less than six feet in height (except where otherwise stated and approved by the administrator) to provide visual screening. Such use shall not be located along an arterial roadway and is subject to the following:  65.1 The regulations of the applicable zoning district. 65.2 No open storage of wrecked or non-operative automobiles and trucks. 65.3 No parts or waste materials shall be stored outside any building. SECTION 66 Bulk Sanitation Containers, Portable Storage Units, Temporary Bulk Waste Containers, Donation Bins and Recycling Containers 66.1 Bulk sanitation containers shall not be located within a detached single family district. They are limited to rear or side yards and must be located in such a manner as to be screened from view from the public right of way. The containers shall be fully enclosed, with the exception of the gates or opening. The enclosure shall be constructed with the same materials of the primary building. The enclosures shall have a roof structure. 66.2 Said enclosures shall be located no closer than three (3) feet to any property line and shall not encroach into a protected buffer area. No bulk container shall be located within 50 feet of a structure utilized for detached single family residential purposes. The Administrator may provide for an exemption from this requirement when conditions cannot be met. In such cases, the property owner or tenant may submit a plan for the Director’s approval. Such plan may include provision for an alternative container utilizing appropriate screening such as a nontransparent fence not less than 6 feet in height with a gate which will open in full to allow service. The bulk container shall be stored within the enclosure at all times unless in the process of disposal. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 145 11/18/21   66.3 Condition and Maintenance All portable storage containers and roll-off trash containers shall be delivered and maintained in good condition, free from rodents, insects, graffiti, vulgar and/or pornographic words or pictures. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or occupant and the supplying company to maintain the portable storage containers or roll-off trash containers in accordance with the provisions of this section. 66.4 Placement and Duration of Use a) TEMPORARY On all property zoned or used for residential, commercial, or industrial purposes, storage containers or roll-off trash containers may remain in use only so long as a valid building or trade permit is in place for the property on which the container is placed. No separate permit is required so long as the use is indicated on the approved site plan or building permit for the project. When no building permit is in effect, a roll-off container may not be placed on a lot for more than thirty (30) days unless authorized in writing by the Director of Planning or his designee. In residentially zoned areas, the container must be placed on the driveway or other approved pavement, and may not extend into the public right-of- way. Should existing site conditions not allow for the placement of a portable storage container in full compliance with these provisions, exceptions may be considered and written approval granted on a case by case basis by the Director of Planning or his designee, after consultation with the Public Works Director and the Fire Marshall. b) SEASONAL Metal storage containers may be temporarily located on property that is zoned for commercial or industrial use for no more than three (3) months within the same calendar year, provided that a building permit is issued for each such container. Containers cannot be vertically stacked, and shall not be placed in front of the principle structure, but must be located at the side or rear of the structure to minimize any visual impact from abutting streets. As a temporary use, they may occupy no more than ten percent of the required parking for the on-site principal use. c) PERMANENT Storage containers may be permanently located on property zoned or used for industrial purposes provided that a building permit is issued for the container, which must be properly anchored or tied down to resist lateral movement or overturning. If over 400 square feet, containers must be placed on a permanent foundation. Containers may not be permanently located in areas that are zoned commercial. Containers may not be placed in front of the principle structure, must observe all required setbacks, and may not be placed within any right-of-way, utility easement, or required landscape area. In industrial areas, such containers are exempt from being required to be clad in masonry material, but must be located at the side or rear of the lot, and painted in a muted color that complements the principle structure on the lot. If the lot is not already screened from abutting residential uses, opaque screening must be installed to at least screen the container from abutting residential use. Signs relating to the on-site business may not be permanently or temporarily attached to any container that will be permanently located on a site. d) RESIDENTIAL In areas which are residentially zoned, when no building or trade permit is in effect for the property, a portable storage container may be placed on the driveway or other approved pavement for a period not to exceed 30 days, provided that the container is not located within any public right-of-way and does  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 146 11/18/21   not block any public sidewalk. The Director, or his designee, may grant one 30 day extension, for good cause, when requested in writing. A container may not be placed on the same property more than three non-consecutive times in a one-year period. Failure to remove a container after the initial 30 day period, unless extended, may result in citations issued by the City for failure to comply with this section. Such containers may not be permanently located in areas that are residentially zoned. e) NON-CONFORMING USES Any container addressed in this ordinance in existence as of the effective date of this ordinance which is in violation hereof shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Such non-conforming uses shall not in any manner be enlarged, extended, or altered except that such uses may be changed so as to comply with the provisions of this ordinance. 66.5 Donation bins: 1. Shall be permitted only as an accessory use to the principal use on an established lot of record. Bins shall be located to the side or rear of the primary structure only. No bin may be placed on a property where there is not a primary structure. 2. Shall not be located in any residential district. When located in commercial business districts, there shall not be more than two (2) bins on properties less than one (1) and no more than four (4) bins on properties greater than one (1) acre. 3. The individual placing the bin shall submit to the City written permission of the property owner or authorized representative consenting to the placement and maintenance of the donation bin. 4. The individual placing the bin shall keep the area around the bin free of litter, remove any graffiti from the bin within 48 hours of discovery and shall maintain the bin painted or otherwise unrusted and undented and in good repair. 5. The location of the bin(s) shall not reduce the minimum parking requirements or be placed within the landscaped areas of the hosting lot. 6. The bin(s) shall not exceed a capacity of 512 cubic feet. 7. The bin(s) must be cleared of contents at least once per week. 8. All bins must be safely designed in a manner that prevents the tipping over and prevents children from entering the bin. 9. Each bin must bear the name and contact telephone number of the owner as well as all organizations which benefit from the collected materials. a) If a bin is placed on property without first obtaining proper permits from the City, the owner of the bin(s) shall be notified to bring the bin into compliance. If the bin(s) are not brought within compliance, the City may have the bin(s) removed at the bin owner’s expense. The bin(s) shall be held for a period of no more than 30 days at which, if not claimed, shall be disposed of. The bin owner shall be responsible for any and all fees associated with the removal, storage and disposal of the violating bin(s) and/or materials surrounding the bin(s)  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 147 11/18/21   left on-site. SECTION 67 Lots  67.1 Erection of more than one principal structure on a lot In all districts, other than properties located in Central Business District, no more than one structure housing a permitted principal use may be erected on a single lot unless the Zoning Administrator has certified that all lot standards of the zoning district are met for each structure as though it were on an individual lot. 67.2 Projections into yards A. An open unenclosed porch or hard surfaced terrace, steps, stoops, and similar fixtures of a building may project into a required setback no more than 50% of that established by the zoning district. B. Fences, walls and hedges over 3 feet in height may not be established within 15 feet of a right of way intersection unless approved by the Public Works Director. In residential districts fences in front yards are restricted to 4 feet in height. 67.3 Substandard lots of record No substandard lot of record may be developed without approval by the Board of Aldermen or, if applicable, permission of the Administrator. 67.4 Corner lots Corner lots which adjoin two or more public streets shall provide the required front setback along that street upon which the structure faces provided said frontage’s length is at least 75% that of the longest frontage. The required major side setback shall be provided on all other street frontages not deemed the front setback. All corner visibility regulations shall be met. 67.5 Double frontage lots Lots which adjoin a public street in the front and rear shall provide the minimum required front yard on each street, except where such lot adjoins a limited access facility which provides no access to the lot. SECTION 68 Disabled Vehicle Lots  68.1 PURPOSE The City deems it necessary and desirable in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare to enact an ordinance for the purpose of screening disabled vehicles parked or stored at a business which is permitted under the zoning ordinance to have stored disabled vehicles. 68.2 INTENT:  The intent of this ordinance is to: A. Prevent disabled vehicles from being visible from all public roads and surrounding properties. B. Provide standards for the screening of disabled vehicles. 68.3 DEFINITION For purposes of this section, vehicles in a disabled or junk condition shall include but not be limited to any automobile, vehicle, trailer of any kind or type, or contrivance or part thereof, the condition of which is one or more of the following: A. Wrecked B. Dismantled C. Partially dismantled  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 148 11/18/21   D. Inoperative E. Abandoned F. Discarded G. One which does not have a valid license plate attached thereto. 68.4 STANDARDS All owners of disabled vehicle lots, shall abide by the following screening standards:  A. Owner or operator shall erect a six (6) to eight (8) foot high privacy fence. Fencing shall be flush to the ground; B. Fence shall be composed of a type of opaque material. Examples of opaque fencing shall include, but not be limited to a masonry-type product such as brick, vinyl, and pressure treated wood. C. Chain link fencing shall be allowed only when there is an opaque covering and additional trees are planted along the frontage of the fence. Trees shall consist of a hardwood species, shall have a minimum two (2) inch caliper and shall be spaced in two staggered rows with ten feet separation between the trees in each row. Additional vegetative cover on the fence such as planted ivy and shrubbery is encouraged. D. Fence shall be constructed so that it shall be entirely opaque. E. The fence shall be constructed so that no opening shall interfere with or obstruct traffic on a public road. F. Opaque fencing shall be maintained at all times, at the owner’s expense. G. Under no circumstances shall barbwire be visible from a public road or from surrounding properties, if it is coiled. H. Vehicles shall not be stacked so as to be seen over the fencing. I. No individual vehicle shall be parked in the storage areas for a period of more than 4 weeks. Any individual vehicle parked longer than 4 weeks shall be considered in violation of the Zoning Ordinance, unless the business is approved to specifically be a storage or junk yard. 68.5 EXCEPTIONS  In cases where the Disabled Vehicle Lot is directly adjacent to undeveloped US. Army Corps of Engineers owned property, there shall be no fencing requirement on the contiguous property line(s). 68.6. REVIEW BY STAFF The installed fence shall be reviewed and approved by the City’s Code Compliance Officer. Once approved, the Code Compliance Officer shall send a letter of compliance to the owner of the disabled vehicle or disabled vehicle lot. 68.7. TIMEFRAME  Owners of existing disabled vehicle lots shall have twelve months from the adoption this ordinance to comply with these regulations. 68.8. VIOLATION  Owners who do not comply with this ordinance shall be considered to be operating in violation of the Zoning Ordinance, and shall be subject to any and all penalties listed in Section 97 of the Zoning Ordinance. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 149 11/18/21   SECTION 69 Site Plan Approval and General Standards  69.1 Site Plans Commercial developments and some residential developments such as apartment complexes require Site Plan approval by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. Accompanying the site plan shall be conceptual architectural building façade elevations showing proposed materials, height, and colors. The approval here is of the site plan, not the particular use. All decisions should be based on site information only. In order to meet the standards of this ordinance, an application may be approved, denied, or approved with conditions. Note: these standards do not supersede any other development requirements including, but not limited to, soil erosion approval, engineering review and detention requirements, subdivision platting review, and building plan review. The following information is required for site plan review. (A site plan should be provided at a scale not smaller than one hundred (100) feet to the inch for Board review). Site plans must be submitted in a digital form using either an AutoCAD designation (.dwg), Portable Documents Format (PDF), or similarly accepted standard. Site plans are necessary for any change of use, new construction, or exterior alteration requiring a building permit of any building whether or not Board review is required. The information required below for site plan review should also be the information required for a request for Special Land Use Permit (Section 70 and 110) of the Board of Aldermen, in addition to any information required by this ordinance. 1. The legal description of the parcel(s) for which the approval is sought. 2. A map(s) of the subject property should provide the following data and information: a. All certifications and dedications appropriately indicated; b. Boundaries of site; c. Municipal boundary lines, section lines, parks, public green spaces or permanent easements which are related to this property and are able to indicate the location of this property; d. The location, width and names of existing or previously platted streets, railroads and utilities rights-of-way, and easements; e. Total acreage or square footage; f. The location, grades and sizes of utilities (water, manholes, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, and power), and the dimension and location of easements; g. Previous topography and proposed profiles of site; h. 100 yr. Floodplain, Wetlands and State Waters information. Including all necessary buffers. i. Zoning information, including district the property is in, setbacks, lot size, density, greenspace/openspace, etc. 3. Regarding the proposed use of each parcel: a. The size, arrangement and orientation of all buildings proposed to be used for dwelling purposes or any other purpose as indicated. b. The location, height, configuration, and material of all walls, fences, or other structures proposed, including dumpsters. c. The location, size and dimensions of all existing or proposed driveways entrances, exits, traffic-circulation patterns, acceleration and deceleration lanes; and the relationship to the site on which the property is located. d. Landscape plan showing all existing and proposed plantings. 4. Any applicable covenants or restrictions. 5. Site plan decisions should be based on the following standards: e. The effect of the proposed activity on traffic flow along adjoining streets. Will it adversely impact flow on adjoining streets? f. The location of off-street parking facilities. Are parking facilities adequate and properly located to serve the use and not impact surrounding properties? g. The number, size and type of signs proposed for the site (as per the requirements of the City  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 150 11/18/21   of Acworth Sign Ordinance). h. The amount and location of green space. Is green space adequate to preserve the character of the area and to reduce environment impacts? i. Protective screening. Is screening adequate to protect the adjacent uses from any negative impacts of this use? j. Outdoor lighting. k. Ingress and egress to the property. Does it reduce negative impacts and/or does it enhance safety? 6. Once all City standards have been found to be in compliance, the development may be issued a Land Disturbance permit by the Public Works Department. If a permit has not been obtained within 12 months of an approved plan, said approval shall be deemed void and the project shall be resubmitted and reviewed by City staff under the most current regulations. If a permit has been issued and a development remains for more than six months with no activity, the permit shall be revoked and will require to be resubmitted for review by City staff under the most current regulations. 69.2 Density calculations Residential density standards determining the number of families, individuals, dwelling units or housing structures per unit of land shall be calculated from all the land within the boundaries of the area including floodplain areas and standing bodies of water unless otherwise stated in this ordinance. 69.3 Height requirements exceptions In all but single family residential districts, height limitations stated in this article shall not apply to: 1. Farm structures, belfries, cupolas and domes, monuments, chimneys and smokestacks; 2. Bulkheads, elevator penthouses, water tanks and heating and air conditioning units, provided that such structures shall not cover more than 25 percent of the total roof area of the building on which such structures are located. 69.4 General Development Standards All new developments shall adhere to the common development conditions and stipulations as listed below, unless expressly waived by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. A. Commercial and Industrial Development Standards (including : C-1, C-2, OIT, LRO, OP, LI, HI, MU): 1. Prior to approval, all site developments that qualify under the State Developments of Regional Impact (DRI) thresholds shall be reviewed by the Atlanta Regional Commission and Georgia Regional Transportation Authority. 2. All developments must be reviewed in accordance to the site plan requirements listed in Section 69.1. For rezonings, unless otherwise approved, the submitted plan shall be considered the conceptual plan and shall allow the applicant to proceed with the development plans once approved. 3. All developments requiring a subdivision or combination of land must be reviewed in accordance to the City of Acworth Subdivision regulations. For rezonings, unless otherwise approved, the submitted subdivision plan shall be considered the conceptual plan (Preliminary Plat) and shall allow the applicant to proceed with the development plans once approved. The Planning Commission shall review all Preliminary Plats for subdivisions of 5 units or greater and shall make a recommendation to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 4. Any final plat shall list all stipulations and shall be approved by the Mayor and Board. 5. All developments shall be required to submit full construction plans (a/k/a development plans) and a hydrology report to the City’s engineering consultant. For sites that contain  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 151 11/18/21   multiple users, a master development plan shall be required for all clearing and grading, soil erosion control, development infrastructure, and storm water control. Full details shall be shown for master storm water detention/retention, if applicable. The applicant shall investigate alternative means of storm water detention that shall meet the State’s Best Management Practices. 6. Any retention or detention ponds where staff finds there to be a potential threat to the health, safety, and welfare shall be fenced. An example of a potential threat shall be a slope in excess of 2 to 1 or greater or where pond depth is six (6) feet or greater. 7. Landscaping shall be planted around the fence perimeter (with a minimum of a row of six (6) foot tall evergreen trees such as Leyland Cypress), with exception of the entryway for maintenance of the pond. Fencing shall be, at a minimum, chain link with black vinyl coating (or similar approved by staff). Applicant shall have the option to install a pressure treated wood or cedar screen fence in place of the black coated fence. Should the applicant decide to make the retention pond as a water quality amenity, staff shall have the flexibility to alter the fencing requirements. 8. Complete Grading Plans showing the extent of retaining walls, buffers, screen walls, etc. along the side and rear shall be made available for review and approved by staff prior to land disturbing activities. 9. Should any State waters be identified on the property, the development shall not encroach within the 75-ft stream buffer except where approved to be piped or where roads are necessary and approved for access. 10. Any stream crossings shall require review and approval from the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 11. All developments shall submit a landscape plan during the Development Plan Review process, including the following: a. The plan shall comply with requirements of the City of Acworth’s Tree Preservation & Replacement Ordinance. b. The applicant shall take extraordinary measures in identifying and saving specimen trees (trees larger than 16 inches in caliper) on the site (where practical). The specimen trees shall be marked on the landscape plan. Trees that are proposed to be saved, shall be appropriately cordoned off with orange (or similar) tree save fencing, prior to any land disturbing activity. c. All vegetation that is planted at the site shall be of a species native to this area of Georgia, unless approved otherwise by staff. d. All disturbed common areas will be landscaped and sodded (with Bermuda sod or similar approved by staff) and will be maintained by the owner(s). Certain areas where there are grades of 2/1 shall be allowed to be hydroseeded with the approval of the city staff. 12. Signage shall be consistent with provisions of the City of Acworth’s Sign Ordinance. A separate sign application approved by staff is required. 13. Where physically possible and where the adjacent owners have the ability to make a connection, there shall be a vehicular and pedestrian connection to any adjacent commercial parcels. 14. Planned shopping centers, as defined, are considered single developments and shall be permitted under one development plan (individual buildings, however, may require separate building permits). Internal roadways shall be shared between the users. Shopping center developers shall be required to grant access easements to users who do not have road frontage. Out parcels shall meet the minimum lot requirements for that district and shall be brought before the Board of Aldermen for site plan approval as separate applications. 15. Public water and sewer shall serve the site, unless approved otherwise by staff and the Cobb County Water and Sewer Department and/or Cobb Environmental Health. 16. Outdoor displays for seasonal promotions will be allowed only as permitted by ordinance  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 152 11/18/21   (see individual districts). 17. Developments shall meet Georgia/Cobb/Acworth Department of Transportation (DOT) requirements (in whichever jurisdiction it is in). In all cases, these plans shall be reviewed by City staff. City staff and DOT shall review and approve the final location of curb cuts and installation of acceleration/deceleration lanes. 18. During the site plan review process, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall approve the architectural design of any proposed project. This review shall require color elevations of all building sides. Building façade (front, sides, and rear) materials shall be composed primarily (60% or greater) of masonry (brick, stone, or architectural split faced block only) with accents of hard-coat stucco (EIFS), glass, fabric (for awnings only), and metal (only for awnings, window frames and accent molding details) and wood (window frames and accent molding details only). Any alternative designs, including but not limited to metal, wood, basic cinder block materials, shall be reviewed and approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, with a recommendation by the Planning Commission. 19. A lighting plan shall be submitted for approval by staff. The lighting plan shall allow for: a. The parking lot lights shall be directed downward on the parking lot. b. The parking lot light poles shall not exceed 40 feet in height. c. No lighting shall project into the buffer areas or spillover to adjacent property. d. There shall be no flashing sign components. 20. Per Section 60, the applicant shall provide a handicap accessible sidewalk along the frontage. The exact location shall be determined at the site plan review process. Where applicable, the final site plan shall show the sidewalk connections to any outparcels, from the main shopping center (and/or office/industrial center). 21. The property shall at all times, regardless of occupancy, be maintained to City standards including: a. The parking lot and sidewalks shall be kept in proper working order without significant cracking. Potholes and indentions shall be corrected within sixty (60) days. All traffic markings shall clearly marked and repainted, if necessary. b. All traffic control devices such as stop signs shall be in proper working order. Any defacing shall be corrected within thirty (30) days. c. The lawn and landscaping shall be maintained and overgrowth shall be controlled and/or removed. d. The exterior of the building shall be weatherproofed and maintained in such a fashion as to keep its original appearance. Any defacing of the building shall be corrected within thirty (30) days. e. The stormwater facilities shall be kept in proper working order. It shall be regularly cleaned and vegetation around the facilities shall be pruned and maintained f. Signage shall be kept in proper working order without significant cracking. Any defacing shall be corrected within thirty (30) working days. g. The owner(s) of existing buildings and/or parking areas shall maintain lighting at all commercial, office and industrial sites. For security purposes, the existing parking lot light poles and exterior building lights shall remain in operable condition. Any lights not in operable condition shall be corrected within fifteen (15) working days. 22. The owner/applicant shall submit a performance bond (or security bond, cash, irrevocable letter of credit) to the City of Acworth in order to insure completion of development of the soil and erosion infrastructure of the proposed development. A maintenance bond shall be submitted for the City for the dedication of roadways or other infrastructure. 23. All rooftop units shall be screened, where they can be seen from anywhere on the site. As part of the building plan review, applicants shall submit plans indicating the height of the parapet walls in relation to the height of the rooftop units. The rooftop units shall be as tall or  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 153 11/18/21   shorter the height of the parapet wall. 24. Per Section 66, all dumpsters shall be located in the rear and shall have a roof or the dumpsters shall meet other acceptable means of storm water distribution, as approved by staff and allowed by the City Zoning Ordinance. 25. Dumpster enclosures shall be gated (with a solid wood or metal gate- Chain link is not permissible) and shall be composed of similar materials of the main buildings. 26. It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to maintain the landscape area located within the right-of-way of their lot, including but not limited to cutting of grass. 27. The development shall meet all City of Acworth Codes and the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations unless specifically approved otherwise by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. B. Residential Development Standards (including R-1, R-2, R-3, R-5, RM-6, RM-8, RC, SLC, MU): 1. Prior to approval, all site developments that qualify under the State Developments of Regional Impact (DRI) thresholds shall be reviewed by the Atlanta Regional Commission and Georgia Regional Transportation Authority. 2. All developments (with exception of individual single family lots) must be reviewed in accordance to the site plan requirements listed in Section 69.1. For rezonings, unless otherwise approved, the submitted plan shall be considered the conceptual plan and shall allow the applicant to proceed with the development plans once approved. 3. All developments requiring a subdivision or combination of land must be reviewed in accordance to the City of Acworth Subdivision Regulations. For rezonings, unless otherwise approved, the submitted subdivision plan shall be considered the conceptual plan (preliminary plat) and shall allow the applicant to proceed with the development plans once approved. The Planning Commission shall review all Preliminary Plats for subdivisions of 5 units or greater and shall make a recommendation to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 4. All developments shall be required to submit full construction plans and a hydrology report to the City’s engineering consultant. For sites that contain multiple phases, a master development plan shall be required for all clearing and grading, soil erosion control, development infrastructure, and storm water control. Full details shall be shown for master storm water detention/retention, if applicable. The applicant shall investigate alternative means of storm water detention that shall meet the State’s Best Management Practices. 5. Any retention or detention ponds where staff finds there to be a potential threat to the health, safety, and welfare shall be fenced. An example of a potential threat shall be a slope in excess of 2 to 1 or greater or where pond depth is six (6) feet or greater. 6. Landscaping shall be planted around the fence perimeter (with a minimum of a row of six (6) foot tall evergreen trees such as Leyland Cypress), with exception of the entryway for maintenance of the pond. Fencing shall be, at a minimum, chain link with black vinyl coating (or similar approved by staff). Applicant shall have the option to install a pressure treated wood or cedar screen fence in place of the black coated fence. Should the applicant decide to make the retention pond as a water quality amenity, staff shall have the flexibility to alter the fencing requirements. 7. Complete Grading Plans showing the extent of retaining walls, buffers, screen walls, etc. along the side and rear shall be made available for review and approved by staff prior to land disturbing activities. 8. Where physically possible and where the adjacent owners have the ability to make a connection, there shall be a vehicular and pedestrian connection to any adjacent parcels. 9. Developments shall meet Georgia/Cobb/Acworth Department of Transportation (DOT) requirements (in whichever jurisdiction it is in). In all cases, these plans shall be reviewed by  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 154 11/18/21   City staff. City staff and DOT shall review and approve the final location of curb cuts and installation of acceleration/deceleration lanes. 10. House plans, elevations and house materials shall be in character to those shown to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen at the respective meetings. All clubhouses (or similar commonly owned meeting areas) shall be reviewed in accordance to the commercial standards above (where applicable). 11. Garages shall be provided (attached or detached). Single car garages shall be a minimum of 11’ x 25’ and double car garages shall be a minimum of 21’ x 23’. All measurements shall be clear internal measurements (exclusive of water heater or other mechanical equipment). Homes located in a designated historic district shall be exempt from the requirement to have a garage. 12. The site shall meet the minimum sidewalk standards listed in Section 60. 13. All new subdivisions (or condominium/townhome/cottage developments) over five units shall establish a mandatory homeowners association, which shall include architectural control oversight provisions. The Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions, which shall include an architectural control committee and design standards, shall be submitted to the City for its review and approval. The homeowners association shall be responsible for the maintenance of any stormwater detention/retention, fencing, playground areas, private roads, or general green space areas. There shall be a 10 foot access easement for the maintenance of fencing and 20 foot access for stormwater detention/retention. 14. Antennas for amateur radio stations licensed by the Federal Communications Commission will not be prohibited by Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions or homeowner's association and the installation of such antennas must be reasonably accommodated. 15. All developments shall submit a landscape plan during the Preliminary Plan Review process, including the following: a. The plan shall comply with requirements of the City of Acworth’s Tree Preservation & Replacement Ordinance. b. The applicant shall take extraordinary measures in identifying and saving specimen trees (trees larger than 16 inches in caliper) on the site (where practical). The specimen trees shall be marked on the landscape plan. Trees that are proposed to be saved, shall be appropriately cordoned off with orange (or similar) tree save fencing, prior to any land disturbing activity. c. All vegetation that is planted at the site shall be of a species native to this area of Georgia, unless approved by staff. d. All disturbed common areas will be landscaped and sodded (with Bermuda sod or similar approved by staff) and will be maintained by the mandatory homeowners association. Certain areas where there are grades of 2/1 shall be allowed to be hydroseeded with the approval of the city staff. e. Signage shall be ground based, monument style and consistent with provisions of the City of Acworth’s Sign Ordinance and incorporated into the landscape plan. f. Decorative lantern-style street lighting will be installed throughout the subdivision along the major streets and incorporated into the landscape plan. g. All lots shall be sodded (with Bermuda sod or similar approved by staff) front, rear and side yards. h. For single family detached subdivisions (and for individually permitted residential lots), a minimum of three hardwood shade trees planted on each lot with at least a 2- inch caliper diameter as measured 6 inches above ground level. A minimum of two trees shall be placed in the front yard of each lot. i. For multifamily developments and subdivisions (including condominiums, apartments, duplexes, triplexes, townhomes, cottages, etc), a minimum of three hardwood shade trees planted on each lot with at least a 2-inch caliper diameter as  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 155 11/18/21   measured 6 inches above ground level. j. For single family and mixed residential developments with five units or more, applicants shall provide some type of amenity or park area including the installation of a playground (with a minimum of a swingset, slide, and benches) and other amenities such as a picnic shelter, gazebo, amphitheater or walking trails. k. For multifamily developments and subdivisions, applicants must submit greenspace plans as required in the RC, RM-6, RM-8, MU and SLC districts. l. Incorporating into the landscape plan landscaping details concerning any amenity or park areas and green space areas. These details shall include decorative fencing for a playground area, detention facilities, green space and creek bank buffers (75 feet from the top of either side of the creek which traverses the subject property). 16. Should any State waters be identified on the property, the development shall not encroach within the 75-ft stream buffer except where approved to be piped or where roads are necessary and approved for access. 17. Any stream crossings shall require review and approval from the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 18. No lots or structures shall be located in any stream bank buffers, wetlands or within the 100- year flood plain. Further, elevation certificates shall be provided for all lots, if any, abutting the 100-year flood plan prior to issuance of building permits for those lots. 19. The owner/applicant shall submit a performance bond (or security bond, cash, irrevocable letter of credit) to the City of Acworth in order to insure completion of development of the soil and erosion infrastructure of the proposed development. A maintenance bond shall be submitted for the City for the dedication of roadways or other infrastructure. 20. The preliminary and final plat shall list all stipulations. The approved conceptual plan shall be considered the preliminary plat and shall allow the applicant to proceed with the construction plans. The final plat shall list all stipulations and shall be approved by the Mayor and Board and reviewed by the Planning Commission. 21. Developments shall install underground utilities only (except street lighting). 22. Public water and sewer shall serve the development, unless approved otherwise by staff and the Cobb County Water and Sewer Department and/or Cobb Environmental Health. 23. All multifamily developments and subdivisions shall abide by the dumpster requirements for commercial and industrial uses. 24. It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to maintain the landscape area located within the right-of-way on their lot, including but not limited to cutting of grass. 25. The development shall meet all City of Acworth Codes and the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations unless specifically approved otherwise by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. C. Mixed Use Development Standards: 1. All mixed-use developments must meet the development standards listed above for commercial, office and residential uses (where applicable). 2. The first phase of the mixed-use development shall include the preparatory grading for the entire site (for all the components) and the installation of all utilities, roads, detention and similar infrastructure for the entire development. The roads (including the parking areas for any office and/or commercial components) for the entire project and the fencing and landscaping which are to be installed along major roadways will be installed simultaneously for any of the components. 3. Construction of each component of the development will commence within one (1) year after issuance of the first building permit for the other components and shall be diligently pursued thereafter in good faith. Further, if construction of one component has not commenced within one (1) year of issuance of the first building permit for another component, at that time  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 156 11/18/21   the undeveloped lot (or lots) shall be sodded with Bermuda Sod until such time as construction begins on those sites. 4. The Planning Commission shall review the final site development plan to insure consistency with the preliminary site development plan submitted in support of this rezoning request. Recognizing that there may be minor amendments based on specific tenants, any substantial deviation from the preliminary site development plan will require a new and amended M-U (Mixed Use) zoning application. 5. Substantial changes are classified as changes in residential density, wholesale changes in the layout moving land uses around, changes to the approved architectural plan materials and overall aesthetic design, moving the detention facility in a way that affects the neighboring subdivision, and any specific changes to any proscribed stipulations in this ordinance. Minor adjustments to the exact location of the commercial and office buildings and or parking configuration shall not require a rezoning. 6. Within the development, there are no buffers or setbacks between the uses other than as shown on an approved plan. 7. There shall be a coordinated architectural design of the mixed-use components. Plans shall be approved as those presented to the Mayor and Board (and reviewed by the Planning Commission) at the Public Hearings. Staff shall review and approve any minor variations to the elevation plans. 8. This development may be placed in one or more separate sign districts depending on the land uses. This shall be determined during the zoning review. All mixed use developments shall be required to submit a unified sign plan stipulating signage to have a similar architectural design. 9. Residential density has been determined on a total-site basis only if the development adheres to the stipulations for this development as a mixed use community. 10. There shall be a minimum of twenty percent (20%) green space for the entire property. 11. Sidewalks shall connect the entire development. Sidewalks shall meet all ADA/Georgia Accessibility standards. Enhancements to the sidewalks such as brick pavers are encouraged. Sidewalks shall be shown on the master plan and all subsequent plans. 12. The development shall incorporate special designed gateway entrances for each main entrance off public roads. The gateway entrance shall have landscaping and be composed of materials to match the buildings and may be pillars or arches or similar as approved by staff. Signage may be incorporated into the gateway entrances, in accordance with the sign ordinance. 13. All utilities, with exception to decorative lantern-style streetlights shall be underground. 14. The site shall contain 5 ft. sidewalks and shall follow the requirements specified in the Sidewalk Requirement section of the City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance. There shall also be extensive pedestrian (sidewalks and greenspace trails) and vehicular connectivity. 15. The applicant shall submit a unified landscape plan during the final Plan Review process, in accordance to the requirements listed in the commercial and residential standards above. The plan shall have a coordination of plant and tree material and species to create a unified appearance. 16. The approved conceptual plan shall be considered the preliminary plat and shall allow the applicant to proceed with the construction plans. The final plat shall list all stipulations and shall be approved by the Mayor and Board and reviewed by the Planning Commission. 17. It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to maintain the landscape area located within the right-of-way on their lot, including but not limited to cutting of grass. 18. The development shall meet all City of Acworth, State and Federal codes and the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations unless specifically approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 157 11/18/21   ARTICLE VII SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS  SECTION 70 Special Land Use Permits  70.1 Within each zoning district’s standards, certain property uses may be allowed provided they obtain a Special Land Use Permit (SLUP) from the Board of Aldermen. This additional review is necessary due to the increased possibility that such uses may have a negative impact on surrounding properties and their value. The City retains its right to subject certain uses to greater scrutiny to determine if they are appropriate or if additional safeguards may mitigate potentially harmful effects on neighboring properties. Table B below denotes those uses which are permitted only after issuance of a Special Land Use Permit and their permitted zoning districts. TABLE B. SPECIAL LAND USE PERMITS  USE ZONING DISTRICT Telecommunications Infrastructure LI and HI Adult Entertainment LI and HI Extended Stay Facility C-2 and LI Special Events Home R-1 and R-2 Churches and religious institutions R-1, R-2, R-3, R-5, RC, RM-6, RM-8 Cemeteries and mausoleums R-1, R-2 , R-3, RM-6 Shelters for the Homeless C-2, OP Halfway House RM-6, RM-8 and OP  70.2 All applications for Special Land Use Permits heard by the Board of Aldermen shall be advertised in the same manner as applications for variances and public hearings will be held thereon in the same manner. 70.3 The Board of Aldermen may grant Special Land Use Permits for any given period of time at their own discretion. 70.4 The Board of Aldermen shall consider, at a minimum, the following in its determination of whether or not to grant a Special Land Use Permit: 1. Whether or not there will be a significant adverse effect on the neighborhood or area in which the proposed use will be located. 2. Whether or not the use is compatible with the neighborhood. 3. Whether or not the proposed use will constitute a nuisance as defined by state law. 4. Whether or not property values of surrounding property will be adversely affected. 5. Whether or not adequate provisions are made for parking and traffic considerations. 6. Whether or not the site or intensity of the use is appropriate. 7. Whether or not adequate provisions are made regarding hours of operation. 8. The location or proximity of other similar uses (whether conforming or non-conforming). 9. Whether or not adequate controls and limits are placed upon commercial deliveries. 10. Whether or not adequate landscaping plans are incorporated to ensure appropriate transition. 11. Whether or not the public health, safety and welfare of the surrounding neighborhoods will be adversely affected. 12. Whether it is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 158 11/18/21   SECTION 71 Community Residences 71.1 Intent and Purpose. The Fair Housing Amendment Act (1988) states that local zoning regulations may not prohibit community residences and requires that municipalities provide “reasonable accommodation” of such uses. The City of Acworth regulates community residences using criteria based upon the actual use of the facility and the number of individuals utilizing its services. This provides individuals with opportunities for normalization instead of institutionalization thereby reducing social costs and fostering personal growth and responsibility while also allowing the City to maintain viable neighborhoods based primarily upon similar single family or planned multi-family dwellings. 71.2 Group Homes. Group homes are defined throughout the entirety of this ordinance as dwellings shared by non-related individuals who live together as a single housekeeping unit and in a long-term family-like environment in which staff persons provide care, education and participation in community activities for the residents with the primary goal of enabling the residents to live as independently as possible in order to reach their maximum potential. This use shall also apply to homes for the handicapped; however, the term “handicapped” shall not include current illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance or alcohol, nor shall it include any person whose residency in the home would constitute a direct threat to the health and safety of other individuals. The term “group home for the handicapped” shall not include alcohol or drug treatment centers, work release facilities for convicts or ex-convicts, or other housing serving as an alternative to incarceration. 1. Group homes with six or fewer residents, inclusive of resident staff, are permitted uses within the R- 1, R-2, and R-3 zoning districts, provided: a) The structure meets all aspects of the Standard Housing Code including minimum dwelling space requirements. b) The operator of the group home obtains certification from the appropriate state licensing body. c) No other such facility or halfway house is located within 1,000 feet as measured from property line to property line. 2. Group homes with more than six residents, may be permitted within OIT and LRO zoning districts (regardless of the number of occupants) if granted a SLUP from the Board of Aldermen. Such uses are limited to one bed per 250 gross square feet of heated building space. 3. Group homes are considered permitted uses by right in OP and RM zoning districts, subject to those standards set forth therein. 71.3 Halfway Houses. Halfway houses are temporary residential living arrangements for persons leaving an institutional setting and in need of a supportive living arrangement in order to readjust to living outside the institution. These are persons who are receiving therapy and counseling from support staff who are present when residents are present, for the following purposes: • to help them recuperate from the effects of drug or alcohol addiction; • to help them reenter society while housed under supervision or while under the constraints of alternatives to imprisonment including, but not limited to, prerelease, work release, or probationary programs; or • to help persons with family or school adjustment problems that require specialized attention and care in order to achieve personal independence. 1. Halfway houses may be permitted within RM zoning districts only if granted a Special Land Use Permit (SLUP) from the Board of Aldermen and are limited to one bed per 250 gross square feet of heated building space. a) The structure meets all aspects of the Standard Housing Code including minimum dwelling  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 159 11/18/21   space requirements. b) The operator obtains certification from the appropriate state licensing body. c) No other such facility is located within 1,000 feet as measured from property line to property line. SECTION 73 Extended Stay Facilities  A. Extended Stay Hotels or Motels shall be defined as any hotel or motel in which thirty percent or greater of all guest rooms have facilities for both the storage and preparation of food and which are designed or utilized for weekly or monthly occupancy. Hotels and motels that do not operate as extended stay facilities shall be permitted by right as a use in the C-2 zoning districts. B. Extended Stay Hotels and Motels are permitted as a special approved use within the C-2 and LI zoning districts and shall comply with the following restrictions: 1. All guest rooms which have facilities for both the storage and preparation of food and have less than 300 square feet of floor area are limited to a maximum of 2 persons per such room; however, for all such guest rooms greater than 300 square feet, one additional person shall be allowable per each additional 75 square feet of floor area up to and including a maximum of 4 persons. 2. An indoor or fenced outdoor active recreation area shall be provided. The size of each recreation area shall be calculated at a ratio of 5 square feet per room with a minimum provision of 750 square feet. All recreation areas must be approved by the Administrator prior to development to ensure that all applicable safety specifications and standards are met. 3. No permanent business license shall be issued for the conduct of any business from any guest room of the facility. 4. No hotel or motel under this section is to be converted to or used as an apartment or condominium without prior approval of the Board of Aldermen. Any hotel or motel converted to such use must meet all applicable state and local codes including zoning standards. 5. Each guest room must be protected with a sprinkler system approved by the fire marshal or their designee. 6. Each guest room having a stove-top unit or other type burner unit shall be required to also include a maximum 60 minute automatic power off timer for each such unit. 7. A hard-wired smoke detector shall be provided and installed in each guest room. 8. No outside storage or permanent parking of equipment or vehicles shall be allowed. 9. All such facilities shall provide a 50 foot undisturbed buffer from any property zoned for multi- family residential purposes and/or a 100 foot undisturbed buffer from any property zoned for single family residential purposes. 10. No building may be placed within 300 feet of any residentially zoned property, inclusive of the required buffer. 11. These restrictions shall apply to all facilities permitted. Owners of properly licensed and zoned extended stay facilities shall have six (6) months from the adoption this ordinance to comply with these regulations. 12. All extended stay facilities shall have a maximum density of 75 guest units per gross acre of development. C. In addition, any hotel or motel which offers or otherwise permits more than three percent (3%) of its rooms to be rented by guests staying on the premises for longer than 30 consecutive days shall also be defined as an extended stay facility, regardless of whether the units provide facilities for the storage and preparation of food. Such use is permitted only as a special approved use within the C-2 and LI zoning districts and the user shall comply with the requirements set forth in Sec. 73 (B) above. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 160 11/18/21   D. No hotel or motel, other than in a properly zoned extended stay facility, shall allow any person to stay on the premises of such hotel or motel in excess of 45 (forty-five) consecutive days during a 180 (one hundred eighty) day period. E. Notwithstanding Subsection (D) of this section: Occupation of a hotel or motel room in excess of 45 (forty-five) consecutive days during a 180 (one hundred eighty) day period may occur at a hotel, motel, or extended-stay facility where the following circumstances are present: 1) a specific business entity desires such occupation for an employment-related purpose which requires temporary occupancy, including but not limited to relocation service, or 2) a government, charity, or insurance agency desires such occupation to house persons or families as a result of a Natural Disaster. F. In order to facilitate the enforcement of the regulations set forth herein, every owner, operator, keeper or proprietor of any hotel, motel, or extended stay facility shall keep a record of all rental agreements between the hotel, motel, or extended-stay hotel and all patrons and their guests. For the purposes of this section, the term "record" shall mean the hotel, motel, or extended-stay hotel's electronic registration system which stores patron’s identifying information. In the event the hotel, motel, or extended-stay hotel does not have an electronic registration system, the hotel, motel, or extended-stay hotel shall record the patron’s information in a paper record or reservation book. The following information, at a minimum, must be recorded at the time of registration and maintained for a period of no less than 180 days after the rental agreement's termination:  1) The full name, phone number, and home address of each patron; 2) The full name of each adult guest 3) The total number of occupants (patrons and guests) registered in each room; 4) The room number assigned to each patron and guest; 5) The day, month, year and time of arrival of each patron and guest; 6) The day, month, year each patron and each guest is scheduled to depart; 7) The rate charged and amount collected for rental of the room; 8) The method of payment for each room; and 9) The make, model, color, license plate number, and the license plate state of the patron and guest’s vehicle if the vehicle will be parked on the premises. G. Any hotel, motel or extended stay facility operating within the city shall be required, at the time of its annual registration for its business license as set forth in Sec. 23-21, to disclose, on a form to be provided by the city’s business license department, the percentage of its rooms that were rented to guests who remained on the premises for more than 30 consecutive days at any period during the previous year. Pursuant to Sec. 23-22, the city manager, or his/her designee, may inspect the books of any hotel or motel, including the record required by Sec. 73(F) in order to verify the information disclosed at the time of the annual registration. H. Each hotel, motel and extended stay facility is required to file a monthly Hotel/Motel Occupancy Tax Report, pursuant to Sec. 86-45. If any hotel or motel operator submits a monthly Hotel/Motel Occupancy Tax Report claiming that 3% or more of the hotel/motel Gross Rent is considered Non- Taxable Rent because it was generated from stays greater than 30 continuous days, then the city manager, or his/her designee, may inspect the books of the hotel/motel making such claim, including examination of the record required by Sec. 73(F), in order to determine whether the hotel/motel is operating as an extended stay facility as defined in Sec. 73(C). City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 161 11/18/21   I. If, after inspecting the records of the hotel/motel as permitted in (G) or (H) above, the city manager determines that a hotel/motel has permitted more than three percent (3%) of its rooms to be rented by guests staying on the premises for longer than 30 consecutive days then said hotel shall be deemed to be operating as an extended stay hotel and shall be subject to all zoning regulations of extended stay hotels, including the requirement to obtain a special land use permit. SECTION 74 Home Occupations A. Intent and Purpose. Certain occupational uses termed “home occupations” are allowed in dwelling units on the basis that such uses are incidental to the use of the premises as a residence. They have special regulations that apply to ensure that home occupations will not be a detriment to the character and livability of the surrounding neighborhood. The regulations ensure that the accessory home occupation remains subordinate to the residential use and the residential viability of the dwelling is maintained. The regulations recognize that many types of jobs can be done in a home with little or no effect on the surrounding neighborhood and, as such, may be permitted provided such uses: 1. Are incidental to the use of the premises as a residence; 2. Are conducted within the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner; 3. Are compatible with residential uses; 4. Are limited in extent and do not detract from the residential character of the neighborhood. Examples of permissible home occupations include residents use their home as a place of work, home office or business mailing address, artists, crafts people, writers, consultants, tutoring and family daycare. B. Special Land Use Permit Required: Home occupations must obtain a Special Land Use Permit from the City Manager or his designee due to their greater possible impact on the surrounding neighborhood as a result of individuals and visitors from outside the neighborhood coming to the property. Factors to be considered include the nature of the proposed business, the availability of parking, traffic generation and any other issue that may detract from the residential character of the area and property values. C. General Provisions and Prohibited Uses. All home occupations shall meet the following: 1. A home occupation shall be incidental and accessory to the use of a dwelling as a residence. No more than 25% of the floor space of the dwelling unit (including attached and/or detached garages) may be used for the occupation. 2. There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation or alteration of the residence and/or accessory buildings to accommodate the home occupation. Internal or external changes which will make the dwelling appear less residential in nature or function are prohibited. Examples of such prohibited alterations include construction of parking lots (either paved or through use of other material – gravel, etc. ), paving of required setbacks, or adding commercial-like exterior lighting. Any alteration or addition which expands the floor area of the principal structure dedicated to the home occupation use shall void the existing business license and require a new business license be obtained, subject to property compliance verification by the Zoning Administrator. There shall be no outside operations or exterior storage of inventory or materials to be used in conjunction with a home occupation. 3. Off-site employees shall not be permitted to work at the residence. 4. No article, product or service used or sold in connection with such activity shall be other than those normally found on the premises. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 162 11/18/21   5. No more than one vehicle associated with the home occupation may be parked at the site. Such vehicle is limited to 1½ ton carrying capacity and must be used exclusively by the resident and parked on a valid improved surface (garage, driveway, dedicated parking pad, etc.) out of the public right-of- way. There shall be no parking allowed in the public street in association with or caused by the business. 6. No use or activity may create noise, dust, glare, vibration, smoke, smell, electrical interference or any fire hazard. 7. All home occupations shall be subject to periodic inspections by the Zoning Administrator. 8. Any type of repair or assembly of vehicles or equipment with internal combustion engines (such as autos, motorcycles, marine engines, lawn mowers, chain saws and other small engines) or of large appliances (such as washing machines, dryers, and refrigerators) or any other work related to automobiles and their parts is prohibited. 9. Group instruction, assembly or activity shall not be permitted (day care excluded). 10. Accessory home occupations may not serve as headquarters or dispatch centers where employees come to the site and are dispatched to other locations. 11. The Zoning Administrator must approve all business licenses which shall be recertified annually. 12. The initial at-home application shall require the posting of a Public Notice sign, in a conspicuous place in the front yard no farther than fifteen (15) feet from the adjacent public roadway of the applicant’s dwelling, with the sign provided by the Business License office within twenty-four (24 hours of submittal of the application. The sign shall allow the public opportunity to notify the Zoning Administrator of any concerns regarding the application. The Zoning Administrator shall not approve the application until ten (10) consecutive days have passed from the first day posting the sign. The Zoning Administrator shall approve or deny the application within twenty (20) days of the posting of the sign. Signs not posted in the manner stated above shall require the applicant to repost the sign as required and the ten day approval calendar to be restarted. 13. Pickups from and deliveries to the site in regard to the business shall be restricted to vehicles which have no more than two axles and shall be restricted to no more than two pickups or deliveries per day between the hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. 14. Family day care facilities must be certified by Georgia Department of Human Resources prior to the issuance of a business license and must accompany all applications for a Special Land Use Permit. The number of children allowed by this ordinance shall be calculated at one child per 250 gross square feet of the residence with a maximum of eight (excluding those of the proprietor). The annual renewed certification from the Georgia Department of Human Resources shall be provided to the City upon renewal of the Home Occupational license. 15. No advertisement shall be placed in any media (including flyers soliciting business) containing the address of the property for any reason other than billing or correspondence purposes. 16. No signage advertising the home occupation shall be permitted at the residence or directing to the residence. This includes, but is not limited to, wall signs, window signs, and free standing signs. SECTION 75 Adult Entertainment Adult Entertainment shall be permitted as a Special Use Permitted by the Board of Aldermen within the Light Industrial and Heavy Industrial zoning districts only. For other applicable restrictions, see Chapter 10, Article II, Acworth City Code. SECTION 76 Telecommunication Towers and Infrastructure Towers may be permitted in HI and LI zoning districts pursuant to the granting of a Special Land Use Permit from the Board of Aldermen. This additional review is necessary due to the increased possibility that such uses may have a negative impact on surrounding properties and their value. The City retains its right to subject certain uses to greater scrutiny to determine if they are appropriate or if additional safeguards may mitigate potentially harmful effects on neighboring properties. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 163 11/18/21   A. Definitions 1. Antenna: Any exterior apparatus designed for the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves for telephone, radio, television, or personal wireless services. 2. Tower: A structure constructed as a free-standing structure or in association with a building on which is located one or more antenna intended for transmitting and/or receiving analog, digital, microwave, cellular, telephone, personal wireless service, or similar forms of electronic communication. This term includes microwave towers, common carrier towers and cellular telephone towers. B. General Requirements 1. A Special Land Use Permit granted by Board of Aldermen shall be required for the construction of all new communications towers within the City limits after the following factors are considered: a) The proposed height of the tower; b) Proximity to residential structures and residential district boundaries; c) Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties; d) Surrounding topography, tree coverage and foliage; e) Design of the tower, with particular reference to design characteristics which have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual obtrusiveness. 2. All permit applications must include a complete inventory of the applicant’s existing towers and receivers/transmitters located within the City and/or five (5) miles from Acworth’s municipal boundaries irrespective of jurisdiction. The required inventory shall include, at a minimum, each asset’s address, latitude and longitude, height, design, operator and lessee, and co-location usage or capabilities. The City shall utilize such information to promote co-location alternatives for other applicants. 3. All applicants must demonstrate that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the proposed antenna(s). Such evidence must be certified by a qualified RF engineer and specifically address the following: a) No existing towers or structures are located within the geographic area required to meet applicant’s engineering requirements. b) No existing structure is of sufficient height to meet the applicant’s engineering requirements. c) No existing tower or structure has sufficient structural strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna(s) and related equipment. d) Applicant’s proposed antenna(s) would cause electromagnetic interference with the antenna(s) on the existing tower or structure. e) The fees or costs required to share the existing tower or structure or to adapt the existing tower or structure for shared use are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development are presumed unreasonable. f) Such other limiting factor(s) as may be demonstrated by the applicant. 4. At the time of filing the application for a tower, the applicant shall provide a site plan and information regarding tower location, accessory structures, neighboring zoning/uses and proposed landscaping. Documentation must be submitted and certified by a qualified engineer delineating coverage and propagation zones, tower design and co-location capabilities. 5. In granting a Special Land Use Permit, the Board of Aldermen may impose additional conditions to the extent determined necessary to minimize adverse effects on adjoining properties. C. Standards 1. All towers must be set back a distance of twice (x2) the full height of the tower from any residentially zoned property or structure used for residential purposes. 2. All towers shall be separated from each other by a distance of at least 2,500 feet. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 164 11/18/21   3. All new self-supporting towers which do not incorporate approved alternative design features must be of a monopole design and built in a manner that allows at least two other entities to co-locate on the structure. 4. All towers and their related structures shall maximize the use of building materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping that effectively blend the tower facilities within the surrounding natural setting and built environment. Towers shall be painted so as to reduce their visual obtrusiveness, subject to any applicable standards of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). 5. Any tower which directly abuts a residentially zoned property shall have a minimum 50’ landscaped buffer with a solid fence or wall no less than six feet in height. 6. All landscaping plans shall be prepared by a registered landscape architect. For each 30 linear feet of perimeter fencing, no less than 2 trees and 2 shrubs shall be installed. The remainder of the property shall be landscaped in accordance with City standards. 7. Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not less than 6 feet in height and shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device; provided, however, that such requirements may be waived for alternative design mounting structures. 8. All towers must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and FAA. 9. Prior to Council approval, compliance with Section 106 of the Natural Historic Preservation Act shall be demonstrated. 10. Tower heights shall be measured from the existing ground base level to the highest point on the tower or other structure, even if said highest point is an antenna, in accordance with Table C:  TABLE C. MAXIMUM TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER HEIGHTS  Zoning District Three Users* Four or more Users* HI 150’ 200’ LI 125’ 150’ * Refers to the number of separate entities co-locating on the same structure. D. Administrative Approval. 1. The addition of transmitting and/or receiving whip antennas and panels may be approved administratively by the City Manager or his designee, so long as any such addition does not add more than 10 feet in height to an existing structure greater than 50 feet in height or more than 5 feet in height to an existing structure less than 50 feet in height but greater than 20 feet in height and all necessary building permits are obtained. Such acceptable structures include buildings, signs, light poles, water towers, and other free standing nonresidential structures. Antennas attached to existing structures, along with supporting electrical and mechanical equipment, shall be of a color identical to, or closely compatible with, that of the supporting structure. Notification shall be given to Board of Aldermen at least 10 days prior to the granting of said request, and if no objection is lodged, considered valid. 2. The City Manager or his designee may administratively approve alternative mounting structures such as fake trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light standards, and similar alternative mounting structures, provided such alternative structure is determined by the Director to satisfy such factors set forth in subsection A. These structures shall also be exempt from the additional separation and setback requirements pertaining to towers. Notification shall be given to Board of Aldermen at least 10 days prior to the granting of said request, and if no objection is lodged, considered valid. 3. The City Manager or his designee may administratively approve the shared use of an existing tower  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 165 11/18/21   or structure by another provider, including the placement of additional accessory buildings or other supporting equipment. The City Manager or his designee may administratively waive district setback requirements by up to 50% to accommodate the placement of such additional buildings or other supporting equipment in order to encourage the shared use of existing infrastructure. 4. The addition of antennas to an existing tower are exempted from all setback requirements which pertain to residentially zoned or used properties. E. Removal of Antennas and/or Towers. All towers shall be maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable building and technical codes so as to ensure the structural integrity of such towers. If upon inspection a tower is determined not to comply with the code standards and to constitute a danger to persons or property, then upon written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service being provided to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have 30 days to bring such tower into compliance. The owner of the tower may appeal by filing a written appeal to the City Manager within 10 days of the receipt of the notice of non-compliance by the owner. The City Manager shall hold a hearing within 15 days of receiving said written appeal. In the event such tower is not brought into compliance within 30 days, the City may petition the municipal court for an order removing such antenna and/or tower and may petition the court for a lien upon the property for the costs of removal. F. Exceptions. 1. Antennas or towers located on publicly owned property or owned by governmental bodies shall be exempt from the requirements of this ordinance, provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has been approved by the appropriate governing body. 2. A tower seventy (70) feet or less in height owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator shall be exempted from these requirements. However, the owner or operator of such tower shall be required to comply with all applicable local, state and federal codes. Any existing or previously approved tower or antenna shall be considered “grandfathered” and will not be required to meet any additional requirements of this ordinance other than those in place prior. SECTION 77 Townhome Uses A. Applicability. These regulations shall apply to all townhome uses, unless specifically exempted herein. Where provisions in this section conflict with the remainder of the Zoning Ordinance, the provisions provided herein shall govern. B. Purpose and Intent. These requirements are intended to regulate the siting and design of townhome projects in pursuit of cohesive design and walkable development patterns. The regulations are intended to define elements of the development that support both horizontal and vertical articulations and variations among units that provide architectural interest and reinforce high quality design and responsible site development practices to meet the goals of the City’s Comprehensive Plan. C. Minimum Design Requirements. Each townhome unit shall Section 77.C. : Minimum design requirements  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 166 11/18/21   provide the following: 1. The exterior façade comprised primarily of brick or stone materials. Where architectural projections are structurally limited from masonry cladding, those projections are permitted to be faced with cementitious lap and shake siding or other similar cementitious products. Molding, windows and doors, and other accents are exempt from this requirement. 2. A two-car garage enclosed with architectural doors. Interior clear space a minimum of 21 feet wide by 23 feet deep is required. Standard panel doors are not permitted. 3. A functional rear porch or deck a minimum of 50 square feet in area. 4. Window systems recessed from the façade of the building a minimum of one and three-quarters (1.75) inches. This reveal shall be accomplished through the design of the window casing reveals and frames. D. Design Elements Catalogue. Each townhome unit shall provide a minimum of one feature from each of the following categories: 1. Private outdoor space: a. Front porch (minimum 30 square feet in area). b. Front-facing balcony (minimum 50 square feet in area). c. Rear terrace (minimum 100 square feet in area). d. Rooftop terrace (minimum 150 square feet in area). e. Private yard space with at least one tree (minimum 150 square feet in area). 2. Architectural projection: a. Projection window (bay or bow). b. Turret. c. Covered balcony or porch. d. Alternative approved by City Manager or their designee. 3. Roof element: a. Dormers. b. Front gable or pediment. c. Rooftop terrace. d. Varied gable system. e. Cornice detailing. f. Alternative approved by City Manager or their designee. 4. Unit or façade variation (required when more than 5 units front on a single block face): a. Change in brick/stone color or a change in masonry material. b. Change in window composition. c. Projection or recess of an architectural feature that is a minimum of 5 feet deep or 15 feet tall (used to distinguish and separate facades vertically because of the significance of the projection). Section 77.C.4: Required window system recess  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 167 11/18/21              Section 77.D. - Design Elements Catalogue: The preceding diagrams are intended for clarification purposes only. Labels follow the subsection numbering. In the event of conflict between the diagrams and the interpretation of the detailed regulations identified in this Section, the detailed regulations govern. E. Bulk Standards. 1. Maximum height: 35 feet. 2. Density: Based on zoning district. 3. Minimum unit width: 24 feet. 4. Setbacks: Setbacks are based on zoning district. Setbacks shall be measured from the development as a whole, regardless of whether the parcels are intended to be subdivided for fee simple ownership or not. 5. Lots:  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 168 11/18/21   a. Irregular lots are prohibited. Establishment of spite strips, flag lots, or other shape that is not generally rectilinear in configuration is prohibited. b. Common improvements. Common improvements shall be located on a stand-alone lot or as part of a lot held I common ownership by the require homeowners association. Common improvements include but are not limited to stormwater ponds, open spaces, amenities, and roads. 6. Floor area minimum: none. F. Development Regulations. Sites for all townhome developments shall comply with the following: 1. Use: a. Townhomes may contain single-family residential uses. b. Where the applicable zoning district allows a mix of uses, live-work units are permitted and encouraged. 2. Buildings: a. There shall be a maximum of six (6) units per building. b. Rear loaded garages: i. A minimum of 25 percent (25%) of units shall be rear loaded. ii. Where the proposed project site is not readily situated to accommodate the percentage of rear-loaded units, the City Manager or their designee may consider the following in applying this requirement: 1) Topographical conditions which would require significant adjustments to the natural grade that would result in substantial cut and fill and/or large, expansive retaining walls that would not otherwise be required. 2) Proposed designs for alternative site layout. 3. Streets: a. All streets within townhome developments shall be accessed through an interconnected network. Culs-de sac and other dead-end streets terminating interior to the development are prohibited. b. Sidewalks and streetscape elements are required on each side of the street internal to the development and along all exterior road frontages. c. All streets are required to be developed to public street standards and publicly dedicated, unless developments are proposed to be gated. Streets in gated developments shall be private but are to be developed to public street standards. The developer shall install and maintain Knox boxes or other public safety equipment required by first responder agencies. d. Where the proposed project site is not readily situated to accommodate an interconnected street network, the City Manager or their designee may consider the following in applying this requirement: i. Presence of extreme topographical conditions that prevent the feasibility of a crossing based on floodways or other environmental constraints. ii. Availability of adjacent properties to be incorporated into the development to provide interconnected access based on the age of the structures and/or ripeness for redevelopment. iii. Proposed designs for alternative pedestrian connections. 4. Open space: a. Each development shall set aside and program a minimum of five percent (5%) of the site as functional open space. In no case, shall the open space area be less than 2,000 square feet in area. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 169 11/18/21   b. Open space may include common amenities, setbacks, planted buffers, parks, and other hardscaped elements and similar features which are located on private property and owned and operated as common space. c. No more than 25 percent of the required open space may consist of hardscape or paved materials, and the remaining percentage shall be permeable areas. d. Areas counted toward open space shall be specifically programmed as active or passive recreation. e. Required sidewalks, parking lot landscaping, and other unprogrammed pervious areas shall not be counted toward the open space requirements of this section. 5. Utilities: a. Individual systems for water, electric, fuel/gas, and HVAC shall be required for each unit. b. Individual metering shall be provided for water, electric, and fuel/gas. c. Easements for all utility lines shall be provided in the common ownership area where lateral service connections shall take place. 6. Relationship external to the development: a. All units fronting on an external public or private street shall face the subject street with the front/primary façade and shall provide access from the interior of the development. b. Driveways for individual units are not permitted to be accessed from streets external to the development. 7. Guest parking: a. In addition to the minimum parking requirements for the district/use, a minimum of 0.5 spaces per unit is required to accommodate guest parking. Guest parking count may either be accommodated as common spaces or dedicated to each individual unit. 8. Common property: a. Townhome developments shall have a mandatory homeowner’s association recorded with Cobb County Superior Court that shall establish ownership and maintenance obligations for all common areas and other association responsibilities. G. Zoning Application Requirements. Any application for a townhome project shall include the following information so a clear and accurate understanding of the proposed project elements can be evaluated during the legislative review process: 1. Concept plan illustrating proposed improvements, facilities, structures, amenities, lots, and applicable dimensions to demonstrate compliance with zoning regulations. 2. Conceptual landscape plan to show proposed landscaping along project boundaries, in buffer areas, in the streetscape zone, and landscape as a component of any amenity requirements, at a minimum. 3. Area calculations and description of proposed amenities articulated on concept and/or landscape plan. 4. Typical elevations that articulate the following: a. General architectural style. b. Proposed materials, colors, and other details to demonstrate compliance with minimum design requirements. c. Architectural elements proposed to meet the minimum design elements. d. Proposed variation between units. 5. All variances shall be identified and explicitly requested through the process outlined in Article XI. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 170 11/18/21   ARTICLE VIII TRAFFIC AND PARKING STANDARDS  SECTION 80 Purpose These standards are intended to provide the reasonable provision of future off-street parking within the City of Acworth; to restrict temporary storage of vehicles and recreational vehicles in residential districts; to alleviate any unnecessary traffic congestion which could result from on-street parking; and to encourage development and usage of off-street parking facilities. SECTION 81 Street Access and Curb Cuts A. Each building shall be located on a lot or parcel which abuts a public street for at least 40 feet or has access to a public street by means of a recorded access easement if approved by the Administrator and Public Works Director. B. Street access and curb cuts for service drives, entrances, exits and other similar facilities on public streets in other than residential districts shall be approved by the Public Works Director. Curb cuts constructed for new driveways to developments on arterial and collector streets shall be aligned directly across from existing curb cuts. The Public Works Director may approve other locations when it is determined that alignment with an existing curb cut is not appropriate. No curb cuts shall be located within 40 feet of any intersection or within 30 feet of another curb cut measured along the curb line. A curb cut shall be no greater than 30 feet in width, and no closer than 20 feet to any property line unless approved by the Public Works Director. C. All entrances or exits of any street or drive, public or private, from or to any state highway shall be approved by the state highway department prior to the construction of such street or drive, or the issuance of any development permit for any improvement to be served by such street or drive. D. No curb cuts for commercial developments may be placed along residential streets. E. All entrances or exits of any non-residential development or place of business shall be kept free and clear of any obstructions, including but not limited to parked vehicles or storage of materials, so as not to impede the flow of traffic onto or off a property. SECTION 82 Street Improvements A. The Public Works Director may require improvements such as the widening of streets, deceleration lanes and/or rights-of-way or the addition of curbs and gutters, in order to accommodate the increased traffic due to proposed developments. B. Existing streets shall be connected and extended throughout the limits of proposed developments. If such street is already used primarily for residential access, requested street improvements to provide access to a proposed non-residential use must be approved by the Board of Aldermen before being connected, extended or in any way provided access to the non-residential use. SECTION 83 Corner Visibility Clearance In all districts no fence, structure, sign, planting or other obstruction (above a height of 3 feet) shall be maintained within 15 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way unless approved by the Public Works Director. This requirement may be waived in the C-1 district, with the approval of the Public Works Director. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 171 11/18/21   SECTION 84 Private Streets Private streets within any district shall not be used to satisfy the off-street parking requirements of this article. Private streets within any district shall be assigned names and locations and names of such streets shall be shown on plans required for the issuance of building and development permits. All private street names shall be approved by the City to avoid conflicting street names. SECTION 85 Parking Spaces Required The required number of parking spaces shall be provided on the same lot with the use it serves, except: A. If vehicular parking or storage space required cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, the Board of Aldermen may permit such space to be provided on other off-street property, provided such space lies within 400 feet of the main entrance of such principal use and meets the storage requirements set forth in Section 65. Such vehicular parking space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not hereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner. B. If a user within a planned shopping center is unable to meet the required parking spaces, no more than 10 percent of the required parking spaces may be shared on an adjacent parcel of the same planned development and shall be located no more than 250 feet of the main entrance of the subject parcel. Such vehicular parking space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not hereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner. C. The required parking spaces of any number of separated uses may be combined in one (1) lot, but the required spaces assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that churches, theaters, or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sunday may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night or on Sunday. D. No street parking spaces may be allowed as meeting the parking requirement except in the Central Business District. E. Stacking spaces shall be provided for any use having a drive-through facility or areas having drop-off and pick up services. Stacking shall begin at the window or communication/mechanical device (e.g. order board) first encountered by the vehicle user. All stacking spaces shall not impede upon on and off site traffic movements or create a potentially unsafe condition for either pedestrian or vehicular traffic. No more than 10 percent of the total parking spaces required for a user may be counted as stacking spaces. F. Vehicles parked within a non-residential parking area shall be parked within the designated parking spaces unless the vehicle is within a designated loading/unloading zone. Said parking spaces shall be clearly designated through paint lines, curb stones or other similar designations as approved by staff. G. No parking area may be used for the sale, repair, dismantling, servicing or long term storage of any vehicle or equipment. H. Required spaces. Table J enumerates the minimum off-street parking provision standards for all properties within the City. If a building or development contains multiple uses, the number of spaces required shall be calculated by summing the amount required by each individual use. Parking areas are encouraged to be set to the side or rear of the primary building in such a manner as to reduce visibility from the street (see individual zoning districts for density bonuses relating to parking location and/or structures). City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 172 11/18/21   I. At least 30% of required parking spaces shall be in the side or rear yard of all lots in commercial (C- 1, C-2, OIT, LRO, OP), industrial (LI, HI), residential-medium density cluster-type housing such as condominiums ( R-5, RC) and multi-family (RM-6, RM-8) zoned districts. J. Where parking spaces are provided in on-site underground or deck parking, a bonus floor area of 350 square feet for each provided parking space shall be allowed and an overall reduction of 15% in the minimum number of parking spaces required  K. Any entity that retrofits an existing site without vehicular or pedestrian interconnection to provide permanent access to adjacent sites’ parking and sidewalks shall be allowed a 20% reduction in required parking. L. All developments wherein the front door is located within 250 feet of a public transit stop shall be allowed a 25% reduction in required parking. M. In order to accommodate seasonal peak parking demand, a number of overflow spaces per square foot of gross floor area shall be allowed above and beyond the maximum number of paved spaces stipulated in Table J. Overflow parking spaces shall be relegated to the rear or side yards in all zoning categories. Parking areas shall be constructed entirely of pervious paving materials. These may include pervious asphalt, permeable pavement blocks, or grass (sod). Table (J) shows maximum allowable overflow parking. TABLE J. OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS  USE MINIMUM SPACES  Automobile repair 1 space per 400 sq. ft. Automobile service station 2 spaces per service bay Self-service gasoline station 1 space per each 2 pumps Business/professional offices 1 space per 300 sq. ft. Boarding and rooming houses 1 space per sleeping room Places of Mass Assembly (Churches, theaters, auditoriums, funeral homes, gymnasiums, stadiums) 1 space per 3 seats (fixed seating) or 1 space per 50 sq. ft. in largest assembly room (w/o fixed seating) MAXIMUM SPACES 2 spaces per 3 seats or 2 spaces per 50 sq. ft. in largest assembly room Day care centers 1 space per 300 sq. ft. plus 1 space per each employee on largest shift Clinics 1 space per 200 sq. ft. Convenience stores 1 space per 200 sq. ft. Dwellings 2 spaces per dwelling unit Restaurants - high turnover/fast food 1 space per 75 sq. ft. plus 1 space per each employee on largest shift Restaurants – other than fast food 1 space per 150 sq. ft. plus 1 space per each employee on largest shift General retail 1 space per 200 sq. ft. Personal service 2 spaces per each employee  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 173 11/18/21   Shopping centers 50,000 sq. ft. or less 4 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft.  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 174 11/18/21   Shopping centers greater than 50,000 sq. ft.  4 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. MAXIMUM SPACES 4.5 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. Rest homes and personal care homes 1 space per bedroom Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, and assisted living centers 1 space per bedroom plus 1 space per each employee on largest shift Motels and hotels 1 space per guest room plus 1 space per each employee on largest shift plus 1 space per 50 sq. ft. in largest assembly room  Public and private colleges, universities, and trade schools 1 space per each employee on largest shift plus 1 space for each 2 students plus 1 space per 50 sq. ft. in largest assembly room (w/o fixed seating) Public and private elementary schools 1 space per each employee on largest shift plus 1 space per 3 seats (fixed seating) or 1 space per 50 sq. ft. in largest assembly room (w/o fixed seating) Public and private secondary schools 1 space per each employee on largest shift plus 1 space for each 6 students plus 1 space per 50 sq. ft. in largest assembly room (w/o fixed seating) Manufacturing 1 space per 2,500 sq. ft. plus 1 space per each employee on the largest shift Warehouses and distribution centers 4 spaces for first 5,000 sq. ft. plus 1 space per each additional 1,000 sq. ft. Recreational centers, including swimming pools and golf courses 8 spaces per acre MAXIMUM SPACES 100 spaces  Notes: 1. Unless otherwise provided, square feet measurements are based on gross floor area of the building. 2. Overflow parking spaces greater than the number in the maximum spaces column above, shall be constructed entirely of pervious paving materials. SECTION 86 Required Surface Parking Standards A. The parking of any vehicle (including, but not limited to trailers and boats) on any lot in any district on other than a surface treated and hardened to accommodate vehicles up to 8,000 pounds gross axle weight is prohibited. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 175 11/18/21   1. Property developed after June 5, 2003 shall be limited to concrete, asphalt, or brick surfaces. 2. Property developed prior to June 5, 2003 may use stone surfaces or tar-treated stone surfaces provided that if such property is improved in any manner that construction costs exceed 50% of the assessed property value, the current standard shall apply. B. Minimum standards for surfaces treated and hardened to accommodate vehicles up to 8,000 pounds are as follows: 1. Concrete: 4 inches of 3,000 psi concrete with control joints at least every 20 feet, control joints utilized, wire reinforcement throughout. 2. Asphalt: Binder and topping course mixes at least 3” thick. 3. Brick: Bricks laid in a 4” inch concrete base, sand/granite leveling base 4. Tar-treated stone: Hot liquefied asphaltic application overlaid with #57 stone. 5. Pervious paving materials as approved by City Staff. C. A parking plan for all but individual single family residential uses shall be submitted with the building plans. Staff shall review the proposed parking plan to insure its conformance with all applicable provisions of this article. Occupancy or use of a building shall not be allowed until the parking facilities are completed in accordance with the approved plan. The provisions of the required spaces on a temporary basis on a hard surfaced sub-base (subgrade plus an asphalt first layer or bound crushed stone aggregate) shall satisfy this requirement. All parking facilities including entrances, exits and maneuvering areas shall comply with the following: 1. Design of parking areas, including space and driveway arrangement, shall conform to the geometric design standards of the Institute of Traffic Engineers, which is hereby incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein. The City Clerk shall maintain a copy of said standards of the Institute of Traffic Engineers on file for inspection by the public. 2. Have access to a public street and be graded and paved. Curbing may be required when needed for effective drainage control to prevent damage to abutting property or public streets, subject to approval by the Public Works Director. 3. Have all spaces marked with paint lines, curb stones or other similar designations (single family residential uses are exempt if fewer than 3 spaces are provided). 4. Provide individual parking spaces with dimensions not less than 9 feet wide and 20 feet deep, exclusive of passageways. In the cases of 25 or more required parking spaces 25% of the required spaces may be of an area not less than 8 feet x 16 feet. 5. For 90° parking, provide interior drive aisles with a minimum width of 24 feet which connect each space with a public street. For 60° parking, provide interior drive aisles with a minimum width of 20 feet. 6. Parking areas established within a residential district for a permitted non-residential use shall provide visual screening between vehicle use areas, including all accessways, and the abutting residential property. Such screening may consist of a wall or solid fence no less than five feet in height and/or a vegetative row of hedges and trees sufficient in nature to provide continuous visual screening. Such screening improvements shall be located upon a non-paved surface at least 5 feet in width and are subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator. See standards set forth in City of Acworth Tree Preservation and Replacement Ordinance (Tree Protection and Landscaping) for landscaping requirements. 7. Adequate lighting shall be provided if the facilities are to be used at night. Such lighting shall be arranged and installed so as not to reflect or cause glare on abutting properties. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 176 11/18/21   8. No parking or loading area shall be established in the required front yard of any residential district except for a single family residential use; no more than 35 percent of the required front yard may be paved or used for parking in such case. 9. The parking areas shall be permanently maintained by the owners or the occupants for their invites or licensees so long as the use(s) exists. SECTION 87 Overflow Parking Standards A. Overflow parking spaces shall be relegated to the rear and side yards in all zoning categories. Overflow parking areas must be designed to accommodate vehicles up to 8,000 pounds and shall be constructed entirely of pervious paving materials. These may include pervious asphalt, permeable pavement blocks, or grass (sod). Suitable permeable paving surfaces include: 1. Grasspave, a system with coverage by a plastic network and grass infilling. 2. Gravelpave, a system with coverage by a plastic network and gravel infilling. 3. Turfstone, a system of hollow core impervious blocks and grass infilling. 4. UNI Eco-Stone, a system of hollow core impervious blocks and gravel infilling. 5. Any other surfaces approved by the Administrator and City Engineer. SECTION 88 Parking in Residential Districts A. Business vehicles under 8,000 pounds axle weight shall be allowed to park in the side or rear yard of the residentially zoned property. Business vehicles weighing or exceeding 8,000 pounds axle weight shall be allowed to park in residentially zoned property during daylight hours, but not overnight or on Saturdays or Sundays. Daylight hours shall mean 30 minutes after dawn to 30 minutes before sunset. B. No recreational vehicle shall be allowed to park in the front of the principal structure in a district zoned for residential purposes. If the property is located on a corner lot, no parking of the vehicle may occur within 20 feet of the rear side that abuts a public street. C. Vehicle repair may not be conducted on vehicles located on any public street. This prohibition shall not apply to emergency repairs taking less than 24 hours to complete. SECTION 89 Off-Street Loading Requirements Where required, off-street loading spaces shall be provided on the same or adjoining premises with the facility it serves, either inside or outside a building. A loading berth shall have a minimum dimension of 12 feet by 35 feet by 14 feet overhead clearance. Such facilities must be designed so that no truck/vehicle maneuvering occurs on the public right of way nor in areas designated for the parking of vehicles except in the Central Business District in which case designated loading zones may also be utilized. Loading areas must be adequately screened from residentially zoned properties, subject to approval from the Administrator. TABLE K. OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS  USE REQUIRED LOADING SPACES Retail operations, including within hotels or office buildings accessory uses One per 20,000 square feet of gross floor area (or fraction thereof) Office buildings and hotels One per 75,000 square feet of gross floor area (or fraction thereof)  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 177 11/18/21   Industrial, manufacturing, distribution uses warehouse and One per 40,000 square feet of gross floor area (or fraction thereof)  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 178 11/18/21   ARTICLE IX ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT  SECTION 90 Administration Authority The Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce this article including departmental approval of all development permits. If the Administrator or his designated representative shall find that any of the provisions of this article are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. The Director shall order discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures including illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this article to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions. SECTION 91 Administrative Variances The Administrator is hereby authorized to grant variances at their discretion (except for density and use) from the development standards of this article, where, in their opinion, the intent of the article can be achieved and equal performance obtained by granting the variance (refer to City of Acworth schedule of fees). The authority to grant such variances shall be limited to 10% of any development standard except as noted below and may only be applied to one parcel: • Front or major side setbacks - up to 10 feet. • Side setback - up to 4 feet per side. • Rear setback - up to 10 feet. • Buffer area - up to 10 feet. • Required parking - 20% of the total required  SECTION 92 Review of Development permit Applications A. A review shall be required for any proposed use of land before any building permit is issued or any improvement, grading or alteration of land or building commences to determine compliance with all provisions of this article. Site plans and other development plans required to be submitted under the provisions of this article shall be prepared only by those currently registered for such work in accordance with applicable state laws; plans for structures whose value exceeds $10,000 shall be prepared by a registered engineer or architect. Development permit applications shall be reviewed by the Administrator and shall be accompanied by complete plans signed by the author. Such plans shall provide: 1. A 24 hour contact, 2. A scale drawing showing the actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact sizes and locations on the lot of the buildings and accessory buildings then existing, and the lines within which the proposed building or structure shall be erected or altered, 3. The existing or intended use of each building or part of a building, 4. The number of families or housekeeping units the building is designed to accommodate, 5. The location of all bulk sanitation containers, and 6. Such other information with regard to the lot and neighboring lots as may be necessary to determine and provide for enforcement of this article. 7. All such information listed in Section 69. B. Approval of preliminary plat in accordance with all applicable provisions of the subdivision or planned development regulations shall constitute approval of the development permit for such subdivision or development. C. All building permits approved by the City shall in no case grant any building permit for the use, construction or alteration of any land or building if the land or building as proposed to be used,  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 179 11/18/21   constructed or altered would be in violation of the provisions of this article or any other codes and laws of the city or the state, except as provided herein. SECTION 93 Schedule of Fees, Charges and Expenses The Board of Aldermen shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a collection procedure for building permits, rezoning and variance applications, special land use permits and other matters pertaining to this article. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Administrator, and may be altered or amended only by the Board of Aldermen. Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. SECTION 94 Building Inspector The duties of the building inspector with respect to this article shall include, but not be limited to: A. The issuance of building permits in accordance with all provisions of this article. B. Making field inspections to determine that the building or structure being constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered or used is being pursued in accordance with the site plan for which a building permit has been issued. The building inspector shall issue citations when a violation is found to exist so that appropriate legal action may be taken to insure compliance. C. Determining, to the best of their ability, that all construction has been completed in accordance with all applicable City code requirements prior to allowing occupancy. SECTION 95 Appeals from Decisions of the Administrator It is the intention of this article that all questions arising in conjunction with the administration, interpretation and enforcement of this article by the Administrator may be appealed to the Board of Aldermen. All appeals of the decision of the Administrator must be submitted in writing to the Zoning Administrator within 30 days of the written decision. The building inspector shall transmit to the Board of Aldermen all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken. A. The Board of Aldermen shall give at least fifteen (15) days notice before hearing the appeal. Such notice shall be given to the general public and parties of interest. Upon hearing of appeal any party in interest may appear in person of agent or by attorney. B. Fees for advertising and review shall be paid by the applicant. C. No appeal requesting the same relief in regard to the same property shall be received or heard for a period of twelve (12) months following the date of said resolution, except that this limitation shall not affect the right of the Board of Aldermen to grant rehearing. D. An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of action appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board of Aldermen, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reasons of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. E. The full procedure is listed in Article X. SECTION 96 Remedies In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is or is proposed to be in violation of any provision of this article, the Administrator or any other appropriate authority of the city may, in addition to other remedies, and after due notice of the violation to the owner and/or any other person in violation of this article, issue a citation for violation of city code requiring the presence of the violator in the municipal court, institute an injunction or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use to correct or abate such violation or to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land. The Administrator may, in addition to other remedies, notify that utility service be withheld therefrom until such time as the structure or premises is no longer in violation of these regulations. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 180 11/18/21   SECTION 97 Penalties for Violation Any person who violates this article or fails to comply with any of its requirements may, upon conviction thereof, be fined up to $500 for each violation and/or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in each separate offense. Except for a different violation, each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense but only after the passage of 30 days from the date of conviction. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City of Acworth from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The Municipal Court Judge shall set all fines and punishments. SECTION 98 Certificate of Occupancy A certificate of occupancy, issued by the building inspector, is required in advance of the uses of occupancy of: A. Any lot or change in use thereof. B. A building hereinafter erected or a change in the use of an existing building. C. Any non-conforming use that is existing at the time of the enactment of this ordinance or an amendment hereto, or any non-conforming use that is changed, extended, altered or rebuilt thereafter. The certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of the building inspector and a copy shall be furnished on request to any person have a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 181 11/18/21   ARTICLE X APPEALS  SECTION 100 General Requirements  A. The Board of Aldermen shall have the powers to Hear and decide appeals from the decision of the Administrator where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination. Every such judgment of the Board of Aldermen granting an appeal shall be accompanied by a finding of fact specifying the reasons thereof. B. Every such judgment of the Board of Aldermen granting an appeal shall be accompanied by a finding of fact specifying the reasons thereof. C. In granting any appeal under the provisions of this section, the Board may designate such conditions in connection therewith as will, in its opinion, secure substantially the objectives of these regulations and may designate conditions to be performed or met by the user or property owner, out of regard for the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare of the community, including safeguards for, with respect to light, air, areas of occupancy, density of population and conformity to any master or through traffic plan, the future development of the City. D. Approved appeals must be implemented within a period of 12 months. After 12 months, Board approval must be obtained again. A building permit must be obtained and the development underway within the 12-month time period. E. The Board may in conformity with this article reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and to that end shall have all the duty of the Administrator to carry out the decisions of the Board. F. Appeals may not be granted conditioned upon the approval of an application to amend this article or to amend the Official Zoning Map. G. Appeals granted by the Board shall only remain in effect as long as the property to which it applies remains in the same zoning classification such property was in at the time the variance was granted. SECTION 101 Procedures A. An appeal to the Board of Aldermen may be taken by any person, firm, or corporation aggrieved or by any governmental officer, department, Board or agency affected by any decision of the Administrator with respect to this article. Such appeal shall be made within 10 days following notification of the decision appealed from, by filing with the Administrator a notice of appeal and specifying the grounds thereof. The Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action was taken. B. A copy of the paid in full tax bill or a letter from the City of Acworth Tax Department stating that all taxes have been paid must accompany the application for a variance before it will be processed. SECTION 102 Public Hearings The Board shall hold a public hearing on all requests for appeals on which it acts. A. Applications for a hearing and decision on requests for appeals shall be filed with the Administrator on forms he shall provide at least 30 days prior to the meeting at which they may be heard. Each application shall contain such information as the Administrator may require to enable the Board to make its decision including, but not limited to, a plat drawn to scale showing the following:  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 182 11/18/21   1. All property lines, with dimensions on an appropriate scale to allow staff review; 2. A legal description of the tract involved, 3. Location of buildings and other structures, creeks, and easements referenced to the property, 4. North arrow, land district and land lot number; and 5. Location of setback lines or other requirements from which the relief is sought. B. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be sent to the appellant and the owners of all the properties abutting or across the street from the property with which the hearing is concerned; provided, however, that where any such abutting property is a condominium development, only the owners of units (exclusive of common areas) lying within 200 feet of the property with which the hearing is concerned shall be entitled to receive notice hereunder; provided, further, that where any such abutting property is owned by a limited partnership, partnership or joint venture, only the person or entity in whose name said property is returned for taxes, as shown by the city tax records shall be entitled to notice hereunder. The names and addresses of all such abutting property owners who are entitled to notice under this section shall be determined from the city tax records as of the date on which the application is filed. As used in this section, the term “street” shall not include an interstate highway. In addition to the above notice requirements, the Zoning Administrator shall post in a conspicuous place on the property a sign or signs which shall contain information as to the date, the time and purpose of the hearing. Public notice shall also be given in the local newspaper at least 15 days before the hearing. SECTION 103 Assistance by Staff The Administrator shall provide such technical and clerical assistance as the Board may require and shall maintain permanent and complete records of the activities of the Board. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 183 11/18/21   ARTICLE XI VARIANCES AND SPECIAL LAND USE PERMITS  SECTION 110 General Requirements  A. The Planning and Zoning Board shall have the powers to: 1. Hear and make recommendations to APPROVE, APPROVE WITH CONDITIONS, DENY Special Land Use Permits and Variances to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. 2. In recommending variances the P&Z Board shall consider the evidence submitted before the P&Z Board and upon its findings, supported by the testimony or by documentary testimony that such variance shall be required by one of the following causes: a) Because of the existence in good faith of a non-conforming use at a time prior to the adoption of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Acworth, or amendments thereto, requires the continuance of such non-conforming use, b) There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions creating a substantial hardship to the applicant which pertain to the particular piece of property or building in question because of its size, shape or topography, c) Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of the ordinance. 3. In recommending Special Land Use Permits, the P&Z Board shall consider the standards enumerated in Section 70 for the applicable special use. B. The Board of Aldermen shall have the powers to: 1. Hear and decide special land use permit requests as delineated in this article. 2. Grant variances from zoning regulations of this article in cases where strict application of such regulations would result in unnecessary hardship; but only in harmony with the spirit and intent of these regulations and is the minimum necessary to grant relief without injury to the public interest. 3. Every such judgment of the Board of Aldermen granting a variance, appeal or special land use permit shall be accompanied by a finding of fact specifying the reasons thereof. In approving variances the Board of Aldermen shall consider the all evidence, including the recommendation made by the P&Z Board, and upon its findings, supported by the testimony or by documentary testimony that such variance shall be required by one of the following causes: a) Because of the existence in good faith of a non-conforming use at a time prior to the adoption of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Acworth, or amendments thereto, requires the continuance of such non-conforming use, b) There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions creating a substantial hardship to the applicant which pertain to the particular piece of property or building in question because of its size, shape or topography, c) Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of the ordinance. 4. In granting any variance or special land use permits under the provisions of this section, the Board may designate such conditions in connection therewith as will, in its opinion, secure substantially the objectives of these regulations and may designate conditions to be performed or met by the user or property owner, out of regard for the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare of the community, including safeguards for, with respect to light, air, areas of occupancy, density of population and conformity to any master or through traffic plan, the future development of the City. 5. Approved variances and special land use permits must be implemented within a period of 12 months. After 12 months, Board approval must be obtained again. A building permit must be obtained and the development underway within the 12-month time period. 6. Variances and/or Special land use permits may not be granted conditioned upon the approval of an application to amend this article or to amend the Official Zoning Map. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 184 11/18/21   7. Variances and/or special land use permits granted by the Board shall only remain in effect as long as the property to which it applies remains in the same zoning classification such property was in at the time the variance was granted. SECTION 111 Procedures A. A copy of the paid in full tax bill or a letter from the City of Acworth Tax Department stating that all taxes have been paid must accompany the application for a variance before it will be processed. B. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice specifying any variances granted. C. Time limit on resubmission. An application for a variance and/or special land use permit affecting the same property shall not be submitted more than once every 12 months; however, an applicant may petition the Board of zoning to waive the 12 month waiting period by demonstrating that the situations or amount of variance requested which led to denial have materially changed or if the request is materially different. SECTION 112 Public Hearings The Board shall hold a public hearing on all requests for special exceptions, variances and appeals on which it acts. A. Applications for a hearing and decision on requests for variances and special land use permits shall be filed with the Administrator on forms he shall provide at least 30 days prior to the meeting at which they may be heard. Each application shall contain such information as the Administrator may require to enable the Board to make its decision including, but not limited to, a plat drawn to scale showing the following: 1. All property lines, with dimensions on an appropriate scale to allow staff review; 2. A legal description of the tract involved, 3. Location of buildings and other structures, creeks, and easements referenced to the property, 4. North arrow, land district and land lot number; and 5. Location of setback lines or other requirements from which the variance is sought. B. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be sent to the applicant and the owners of all the properties abutting or across the street from the property with which the hearing is concerned; provided, however, that where any such abutting property is a condominium development, only the owners of units (exclusive of common areas) lying within 200 feet of the property with which the hearing is concerned shall be entitled to receive notice hereunder; provided, further, that where any such abutting property is owned by a limited partnership, partnership or joint venture, only the person or entity in whose name said property is returned for taxes, as shown by the city tax records shall be entitled to notice hereunder. The names and addresses of all such abutting property owners who are entitled to notice under this section shall be determined from the city tax records as of the date on which the application is filed. As used in this section, the term “street” shall not include an interstate highway. In addition to the above notice requirements, the Zoning Administrator shall post in a conspicuous place on the property a sign or signs which shall contain information as to the date, the time and purpose of the hearing. Public notice shall also be given in the local newspaper at least 15 days before the hearing. C. No submitted application may be amended after public notice of the request has been given provided, however, the Board may allow such application to be amended during the public hearing. SECTION 113 Assistance by Staff The Administrator shall provide such technical and clerical assistance as the Board may require and shall maintain permanent and complete records of the activities of the Board. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 185 11/18/21   ARTICLE XII AMENDMENTS  SECTION 120 Generally A. This article, including the Official Zoning Map, may be amended by the Board of Aldermen on its own motion, or on recommendation of the Planning Commission, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or been submitted to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation; provided, however, that after any such amendment has been submitted to and reviewed by the Planning Commission and its recommendation made thereon, the Board of Aldermen shall have the right to modify such amendment or place conditions thereon, and it shall not be necessary to resubmit such amendment, as modified or conditioned, to the Planning Commission. Before enacting an amendment to this article, the Board of Aldermen shall give public notice and hold a public hearing thereon. B. Application to amend this article may be in the form of proposals to amend the text or Official Zoning Map. Unless initiated by the Board of Aldermen or Planning Commission, all applications for map amendments must be submitted by the owner (as determined by controlling at least a 51% interest in the property) or the authorized agent of such property. An application for an amendment affecting the same property shall not be submitted more than once every twelve (12) months; however, this provision shall not apply to those properties affected by an amendment filed by the Board of Aldermen or Planning Commission. SECTION 121 Application for Map Amendments A. Each application to amend the Official Zoning Map shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator at least 20 days prior to the Planning Commission hearing at which they may be heard. Each application shall include such information as the Administrator may require including, but not limited to: 1. A legal description of the tract(s) proposed to be rezoned; 2. A plat showing the dimensions, acreage and location of the tract(s) prepared by a state registered architect, engineer, landscape architect or land surveyor; such plat shall also contain the present zoning classifications of all surrounding properties; 3. The present and proposed zoning classification for the tract(s); 4. The name(s) and address(es) of the owners of the land and their agents, if any; 5. A copy of the recorded warranty deed (or other instrument of title) which vested title to the property in the applicant, 6. A copy of the paid in full tax bill or a letter from the Cobb County Tax Department stating that all taxes have been paid, and 7. A site plan showing any and all proposed improvements to be constructed if the application is approved. Multi-family developments must include number of units per total acre and the number of units per developable acre. Commercial projects shall state what type of development is proposed and the number of square feet such use is to contain. Building permits shall be issued only in accordance with the requested uses. Any change from the statements included in the application shall be brought before the Planning Commission and Board of Aldermen as though it were a new rezoning request (including any fees). 8. Community Impact Statement for all applications for rezoning comprising five (5) or more acres. At a minimum the following shall be discussed: a) Adequacy of existing public facilities and services needed to serve the development. Analysis shall be made of sewer, water, police, schools, fire stations, drainage and other major locally financed facilities. b) Additional on-site and off-site public facilities or services which would be required as a result of the development. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 186 11/18/21   c) Traffic to be generated by the development (using accepted traffic generating factors published by the Institute of Traffic Engineers), capacity of surrounding roads, existing traffic counts at the nearest counting station(s) and specific road improvements necessary. d) Fiscal impact of the proposed development, such as estimated tax revenue to be generated. e) Impact of construction and permanent change in land use upon surrounding property, such as vegetation, noise, storm water drainage and air and water pollution. B. This application shall be accompanied by a fee to partially defray the public expense of processing the application. A fee shall not be charged if an official governmental agency files the application or if the rezoning is a result of O.C.G.A.§ 36-66-1 et seq., which requires all annexed properties to have a zoning hearing, provided said hearing designates a zoning classification which is the most equivalent to the existing county zoning. No advertising, annexation or rezoning fees shall be required for owners of existing residential properties that are seeking to have property annexed with no new development at the property. C. Applicants may request a meeting with the Zoning Administrator and other City staff to review a specific development proposal prior to the deadline for submitting an application to amend the Official Zoning Map. This meeting will provide staff an opportunity to informally review the development proposal and offer suggestions for changes and improvement. Applicants will be entitled to make changes to development plans before the application for rezoning becomes official. D. No submitted application may be amended after public notice of the request has been given unless changes are made in response to issues discussed at the Planning Commission Public Hearing and/or Board of Aldermen Public Hearing. E. The applicant or agent shall be present at the hearings before the Planning Commission and Board of Aldermen with regard to said application. In the event that an agent is present, rather than the applicant, such agent must have full authority to act on behalf of the applicant with regard to all matters pertaining to said application. F. The applicant must submit renderings, site plans and other exhibits purporting to depict what is to be constructed should a map amendment be approved; however, the applicant shall be required to develop according to such plans if approved by the Board of Aldermen. Any major deviation from such approved plans, such as adding new lots, layout change, change of building façade elevations, etc. would require another rezoning application be filed. The Board of Aldermen may also require or attach to any rezoning such conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed building, structure or use as it may deem advisable so as to improve the quality of life through the protection against air, water and noise pollution and promotion of aesthetic considerations. G. An application may not be withdrawn by the applicant within 48 hours prior to a hearing on the matter, however, the Board of Aldermen may, by a majority of the members present, allow an application to be withdrawn without prejudice with respect to the 12-month limitation, or allow an application to be amended. Failure of the applicant or their representative to appear at the scheduled hearing may result in automatic dismissal with prejudice, rejection of the application or continuance of the hearing at the sole discretion of the Planning Commission or Board of Aldermen. SECTION 122 Assistance by Staff The Administrator upon receiving an application for amendment to the Official Zoning Map shall prepare and transmit a report to the Planning Commission and Board of Aldermen determining:  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 187 11/18/21   • Whether the zoning proposal will permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property; • Whether the zoning proposal will adversely affect the existing use of usability of adjacent or nearby property; • Whether the property to be affected by the zoning proposal has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned; • Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use that may cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools; • Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policies and intent of the land use plan; and • Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approved or disapproved zoning proposal. SECTION 123 Planning Commission Action A. The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on each rezoning application in accordance with their adopted schedule and procedures. The staff report on each application shall be considered and testimony solicited from the applicant and those interested citizens. The Planning Commission shall review the following factors in making a determination on the application: 1. Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policies and intent of the comprehensive land use plan; 2. The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner; 3. Existing uses and zoning classifications of nearby property; 4. The extent to which property values are diminished by the particular zoning restrictions; 5. The cost to the City and other governmental entities in providing, improving, increasing, or maintaining utilities, schools, streets, and other public infrastructure. 6. The possible impact on the environment, including but not limited to drainage, soil erosion, sedimentation, flooding, air quality, and water quality. 7. The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposes; 8. The aesthetic effect on existing and future use of the property as it relates to the surrounding area. 9. The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned, considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property; 10. Whether the subject property has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned; 11. Whether the proposed zoning will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property; 12. Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools; 13. Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal. B. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed amendment promotes the public health, morality and general welfare of the City  C. If any person desires a stenographic record of the proceedings, such person shall make arrangements by informing the City Clerk, who shall arrange for a stenographer to record the proceedings, at least five days prior to the meeting. The costs of such shall be borne by the person or persons requesting stenographic recording. A stenographer not arranged for in accordance with this section shall not be allowed to set up in the hearing room. D. As to each application, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation for APPROVAL, APPROVAL WITH MODIFICATIONS, DENIAL, OR APPROVAL TO ANOTHER ZONING  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 188 11/18/21   DISTRICT OR TABLING of the request. The Planning Commission may only table a request upon consent of the applicant. If the applicant does not wish for the application to be tabled the Planning Commission shall forward the request to Board of Aldermen with or without a recommendation. A copy of the Planning Commission’s recommendations shall be prepared and submitted to the Board of Aldermen. E. The Planning Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of hearings and meetings as are consistent with state law and the City code and are appropriate to its responsibilities which shall be published and available to the public, as well as conflict of interest rules, to insure that no member is entitled to rule on a matter in which he has an direct or indirect interest. SECTION 124 Board of Aldermen Action A. The Board of Aldermen shall hold a public hearing on all requests to amend this article and the Official Zoning Map contained therein. Prior to such hearing the Board of Aldermen shall review the staff report and recommendation from the Planning Commission. At the public hearing the applicant shall present their request for a map amendment and any information they deem to support said request. B. If any person desires a stenographic record of the proceedings, such person shall make arrangements for such by informing the City Clerk at least five days prior to the meeting who shall arrange for a stenographer to record the proceedings. The costs of such shall be borne by the person or persons requesting stenographic recording. No stenographer not arranged for in accordance with this section shall be allowed to set up in the hearing room. C. So that the purpose of this article will be served and the health, public safety and general welfare secured, the Board of Aldermen may APPROVE, APPROVE WITH STIPULATIONS (which may be site-specific), DENY, REDUCE THE LAND AREA FOR WHICH THE APPLICATION IS MADE, CHANGE THE ZONING CLASSIFICATION REQUESTED, TABLE UNTIL THE NEXT MEETING OR ALLOW AN APPLICATION TO BE WITHDRAWN (with or without prejudice at the discretion of the Board of Aldermen). D. The decision by Board of Aldermen to approve in whole or part, reject, condition or delete an application for rezoning shall be based on, but not limited to, a consideration of the following: 1. Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policies and intent of the comprehensive land use plan; 2. The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner; 3. Existing uses and zoning classifications of nearby property; 4. The extent to which property values are diminished by the particular zoning restrictions; 5. The cost to the City and other governmental entities in providing, improving, increasing, or maintaining utilities, schools, streets, and other public infrastructure. 6. The possible impact on the environment, including but not limited to drainage, soil erosion, sedimentation, flooding, air quality, and water quality. 7. The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposes; 8. The aesthetic effect on existing and future use of the property as it relates to the surrounding area. 9. The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned, considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property; 10. Whether the subject property has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned; 11. Whether the proposed zoning will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property;  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 189 11/18/21   12. Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools; 13. Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal. E. In acting on such application, the Board of Aldermen shall have the authority to grant the applicant variances from the regulations and provisions of this article. SECTION 125 Public Notification A. Due notice of all public hearings on an application for text or map amendment shall be published at least 15 (but no more than 45) days prior to the public hearing in the newspaper denoted as the legal organ of the City and shall include the date, time and place of said public hearings. B. At least 15 days prior to the Planning Commission public hearing, the applicant shall erect a sign on a conspicuous place on the property for which an application has been submitted. The sign shall show the application number, the present zoning classification, the scheduled date, time and place of public hearings and the telephone number to call for further information. If the property for which rezoning is sought is contained on more than one road then a sign shall be posted on each road on which the parcel(s) front(s). All signs shall be removed by the applicant within two weeks of final adjudication. The Zoning Administrator shall inspect each site to verify that the public notification signage is in compliance. C. For amendments not initiated by the City, the applicant shall notify by certified mail, all property owners directly adjacent to the property being considered (excluding owners of common areas or common elements of a condominium development) and across the accessing roadway, public or private as shown by the most recent tax records at the addresses shown on said records. Such notification shall be mailed no less than 15 days prior to the public hearings and must include the proposed zoning change, as well as the date, time and place of the scheduled public hearings. The return receipt addressee for all notifications mailed will be the City of Acworth Community Development Department. D. If an application for map amendment is postponed at the request of the applicant, due notice of the new public hearings on the application may be republished and reposted as per the requirements of Section (B) above. The costs of said advertisements shall be the responsibility of the applicant. E. If an application for map amendment is postponed that requires a return to the Planning Commission, due notice of the new public hearings on the application may be republished and reposted as per the requirements of Sections (A) and (B) above. The costs of said advertisements shall be the responsibility of the applicant. SECTION 126 Home Rule Annexation A. The Zoning Administrator, upon receiving a request for annexation, shall determine whether such application complies with legal and procedural requirements. If it does not comply with requirements, the City shall notify in writing the persons presenting the application, stating wherein the application is deficient. If it is determined that the application does comply with this article, the City shall proceed to act on the application in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-36-36. B. Within five business days of accepting an application for annexation, the Zoning Administrator shall give written notice to Cobb County-or other County- (by certified mail- return receipt requested) and include a map or other description of the site proposed to be annexed sufficient to identify the area,  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 190 11/18/21   per Service Delivery Agreement. C. The City of Acworth shall make plans for the extension of services to the area proposed to be annexed and shall prepare a report to be made available to the public at least 14 days prior to the public hearing. D. The Planning Commission shall review each application after a public hearing is held. The Planning Commission will determine whether the annexation would have adverse affects upon public facilities and services, and may recommend a Future Land Use designation and zoning category. A report of the Planning Commission’s recommendation shall be submitted to the Board of Aldermen. E. The City shall hold separate public hearings on the proposed annexation and zoning of the property, not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days from the time a determination is made that the petition is valid. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given in writing to the persons presenting the application and shall be advertised in the local newspaper once a week for two consecutive weeks immediately preceding the hearing. If, after the public hearing, the governing body determines that the annexation would be in the best interests of the area’s residents and property owners and of the citizens of the City, an annexing ordinance shall be adopted within 60 days following validation of the signature of the applicants. F. All annexation proposals must be accompanied by a rezoning application submitted to the Zoning Administrator even if the applicant desires the City zoning district most similar to that previous designated by Cobb County (or other County). SECTION 127 Legislative annexation Annexation into the corporate limits of the City by action of the Georgia State Legislature will conform to the requirements of section 126 above, except that the Board of Aldermen will not pass the ordinance zoning the annexed tract until after action by the legislature. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 191 11/18/21   ARTICLE XII DEFINITIONS  SECTION 130.1 Interpretation of Words A. Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; and words in the present tense shall include the future tense. B. The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary. C. The word “may” is permissive. D. The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for,” “designed for,” “intended for,” “maintained for,” and “occupied for.” E. The word “structure” includes the word “building.” F. Words not defined herein shall be construed as having the meaning given by common and ordinary use. SECTION 130.2 Definitions of Terms For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply: • Abut: To physically touch or border upon; or to share a common property line. • Accessory building or use: A use or a structure subordinate to the principal use or building on a lot and serving the purpose customarily incidental to the use of the principal building. Where an accessory building is attached to the main building in a substantial manner, as by a wall or roof, such accessory building shall be considered part of the principal building. • Administrator: shall mean Zoning Administrator or designee. • Adult Entertainment: Includes, but is not limited to, adult bookstores, adult dancing establishments, adult mini motion picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult motion picture theater, adult video store, adult novelty or gift shop, erotic dance establishment, escort bureau or introduction services. All adult entertainment uses shall adhere to Chapter 10, Article II of the Acworth City Code. • Agriculture: The production, rearing or storage of crops and/or livestock for sale, lease or personal use, or lands devoted to a soil conservation or forestry management program. • Airport: A place designed for the landing and taking off of aircraft, usually equipped with hangars, facilities for refueling and repair and various accommodations for passengers. • Alley: A service way providing a secondary means of public access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation. • Alteration: Any change or re-arrangement in the supporting members of an existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior partitions, as well as any change in doors or windows, or any enlargement to or diminution of a building or structure, whether horizontally or vertically, or the moving of a building or structure from one location to another. • Animal hospitals: A place where animals or pets are given medical or surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental to the hospital use. • Apartment house: A structure containing three or more dwelling units. • Apartment unit: One or more rooms with private bath and kitchen facilities comprising an independent self-contained dwelling unit in a building containing more than two dwelling units. • Artisan: A person or group of individuals manually skilled in making a particular product such as glass, pottery and ceramics, wood cabinets, and other small-scale woodworks. • Assisted living facility: A facility licensed by the State of Georgia for the transitional residency of elderly and/or disabled persons, progressing from independent living to congregate housing, within which are provided living and sleeping facilities, meal preparation, laundry services, transportation services and routine social and medical appointments and counseling. • Automobile maintenance: The routine replacement and maintenance of non-engine related parts including brake repair, tire replacement, tune-ups, and oil changing. This term shall not include  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 192 11/18/21   engine or body dismantling. • Automobile repair: General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, or trailers such as collision service, body repair and frame straightening; painting and upholstering; vehicle steam cleaning; and undercoating. • Automobile sales: The use of any building, land area or other premise for the display and sale of new or used motor vehicles, and including any warranty repair work or other repair service; provided, however, that such definition shall not include the sale by an individual of motor vehicles acquired for such individual's own use and actually so used. • Automobile service station (gas, filling station): A building or structure used for the retail sale and dispensing of fuel, lubricants, tires, batteries, accessories, and supplies, including installation or minor services, customarily incidental thereto; facilities for washing and for chassis and gear lubrication of vehicles are permitted if enclosed in a building. • Automobile wrecking yard: Any place where two or more vehicles not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being restored to operating condition, or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging of any goods, articles or merchandise. • Basement: That portion of a building built partly underground having one-half or more of its floor-to- ceiling height below the average level of the lot grade but not less than six and one-half feet. • Beverage shop: retail establishment selling alcoholic goods and other materials that are packaged to go and not for consumption upon the premises. (Must meet the City of Acworth Alcohol Beverages Ordinance, Chapter 6, City Code) • Bedroom: A private room planned and intended for sleeping, separable from other rooms by a door, and accessible to a bathroom without crossing another bedroom or living room. • Block: A unit of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and public land, railroad right- of-way, waterways or any other barrier to the continuity of development. • Boarding home for sheltered care: A profit or non-profit boarding home, rest home, or other home for the sheltered care of adult persons licensed by the State of Georgia which, in addition to providing food and shelter for up to five persons unrelated to the proprietor, also provides any personal care or service beyond food, shelter and laundry. • Boarding house: A building, or portion thereof, where meals and lodging are provided for compensation for at least three persons and not more than ten persons exclusive of the proprietor, members of the proprietor’s family and servants of the establishment. • Buffer: A natural undisturbed portion of a lot which is set aside to achieve a visual and noise barrier between land uses. A buffer is achieved with natural vegetation, except for approved access and utility crossings, and must be replanted when sparsely vegetated subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator. • Building: Any structure designed or built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals or property of any kind. • Building coverage: The horizontal area measured from the outside of the exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and accessory buildings on a lot. • Building facade: The portion of any exterior elevation of a building extended from grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves and the entire width of the building elevation fronting a public street, excluding alleys and lanes, and which may also be referred to as the building face. • Building permit: Written permission issued by the proper municipal authority for the construction, repair, alteration or addition to a structure. • Building setback line: A line, usually fixed parallel to the lot line, beyond which a building, or any projection thereof, cannot extend, excluding uncovered steps terraces, stoops or similar fixtures. • Bulk Sanitation Containers: A metal container or receptacle designed to receive, transport and/or  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 193 11/18/21   dump between two and eight cubic yards of solid waste and/or garbage refuse. • Bulk storage: The storage of chemicals, petroleum products and other materials in aboveground containers for subsequent resale to distributors or retail dealers or outlets. • Business park: A large tract of land that has been planned, developed and operated as an integrated facility for a number of individual office uses, with special attention to circulation, parking, utility needs, aesthetics, and compatibility. • Car wash: A building, or portion thereof, where automobiles are washed by mechanical or high pressure water devices. • Cemetery: Property used for the interring of the dead. • Central business district (CBD): The major shopping area within the city containing, in addition to retail uses, governmental offices, service uses, professional, cultural, recreational and entertainment establishments and uses, hotels, appropriate industrial activities, and transportation facilities. The district includes the properties fronting Main Street from the Highway 92 Bridge to Clarkesville Dr. Also includes the properties fronting Northside/Southside Dr. from Bell St. to Lemon St. • Certificate of occupancy (CO): A document issued by the proper authority allowing the occupancy or use of a building and certifying that the structure or use has been constructed or will be used in compliance with all the applicable municipal codes and ordinances. • Child care center: A private establishment enrolling five or more children and where tuition, fees, or other forms of compensation for the care of the children is charged. The term includes day nurseries and kindergartens. • Church: A building wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship, and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship. • City: The City of Acworth. • City planning. The decision-making process in which goals and objectives are established, existing resources and conditions analyzed, strategies developed, and controls enacted to achieve the goals and objectives as they relate to cities and communities. • City standards: shall mean the City Standards of the City of Acworth, Georgia, which are hereby adopted and which are incorporated herein by reference. The city clerk shall maintain a copy of said city standards on file for inspection by the public. • Clerk of superior court: shall mean the Clerk of the Superior Court of Cobb County, Georgia. • Clinic: A building or part of a building used for medical, dental, chiropractic, surgical or therapeutic treatment of human beings, excluding hospitals or professional offices of a doctor located in their residence. • Club or lodge, private: Buildings or facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person or persons for social, educational or recreational purposes, but primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business. • Comprehensive plan: A policy guideline including the Future Land Use Map adopted by the Mayor and Council representing issues, goals, policies, and actions for the growth and development of the City. While adopted by the Mayor and Council it does not serve as a development ordinance nor does it carry the force of law but rather serves as a guide to continued growth and development city wide. • Conditional use: A use permitted in a particular zoning district only upon showing that such use would not be detrimental to public health, safety or general welfare. Such uses may be required to meet additional standards and may be controlled as to the number, area and spacing from other uses and each other. • Condominium: A building, or group of buildings, in which units are owned individually, and the structure. Common areas and facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis. • Condominium, commercial: A building or buildings used for offices, businesses, professional services  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 194 11/18/21   and other commercial enterprise organized, owned and maintained as a condominium. • Construction vehicle: Any vehicle (other than passenger vehicle, pick-up or panel truck) whose primary purpose is use in land development and construction including, but not limited to, earth moving equipment and dump trucks. • Covenant: A private legal restriction on the use of land, contained in the deed to the property or otherwise formally recorded. • Convenience stores: Any retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged food products, household items, and other goods commonly associated with the same and having a gross floor area of less than 5,000 square feet. • Cul-de-sac: A minor street with only one outlet, sometimes called a “dead end” street. • Curb cut: The opening along the curb line at which point vehicles may enter or leave the roadway. • Dedication: Under subdivision regulations, the transfer of property from private to public ownership. • Density: The number of families, individuals, dwelling units, or housing structures per unit of land. The standard for density shall be the gross density which includes all the land within the boundaries of the area. The net density calculation shall exclude floodplains, wetlands and standing bodies of water. • Detention facility: A municipal, county, or state jail used for the detention of prisoners; including; penal institutions, penitentiaries, prisons and prison institutions; detention and correctional institutions; rehabilitation institutions and work camps. • Development: The division of an existing parcel of land; the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or enlargement of any structure; any mining, excavation, landfill or land disturbance, and any use or extension of the use of land. • Display case: A case, cabinet, or other device having a window of glass or other transparent material, or other opening, access to which is made from other than within the structure or building of which it is a part or attached to. • District: A part, zone or geographic area within the municipality within which certain zoning or development regulations apply. • Domesticated animals: Small animals including fish or fowl permitted in the house or yard and kept for company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats, rabbits, rodents, birds and fish but excluding swine, livestock and exotic animals. • Donation Bins: Any container dedicated for the sole purpose of collecting discarded materials for the purposes of recycling. Said materials shall include but are not limited to, clothing, toys, leather goods, and electronics. • Drive-in establishment: An establishment which is designated to provide, either wholly or in part, service to customers while in their automobile parked on the premises. • Drive-in restaurant: A building or portion thereof where food and/or beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption and where all or a significant portion of the consumption takes place or is designed to take place outside the confines of the building. • Driveway: A private roadway providing access for vehicles to a parking space, garage, dwelling or other structure. • Drug store: A store where the primary business is the filling of medical prescriptions and the sale of drugs, medical devices and supplies, and nonprescription medicines, but where non-medical products are sold as well. • Dwelling, detached: A dwelling which is designed for and occupied by not more than one family and surrounded by green space or yards and which is not attached to any other dwelling by any means. • Dwelling, duplex: A building that is divided horizontally into two dwelling units each of which has an independent entrance either directly or through a common vestibule and used by not more than two families. • Dwelling, multiple or multi-family: A building designed for and containing three or more dwelling  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 195 11/18/21   units. • Dwelling, quadraplex: Four attached dwellings in one structure in which each unit has two green space exposures and shares one or two walls with adjoining unit or units. • Dwelling, single family: A building designed for and containing one dwelling unit occupied by one family unit. • Dwelling, single family attached: A one-family dwelling attached to two or more one-family dwellings by common vertical walls. This term includes duplexes, triplexes, and townhomes. • Dwelling, triplex: A building divided into only three dwelling units each of which has an independent entrance either directly or through a common vestibule and used by not more than three families • Dwelling unit: Consists of one or more rooms which are arranged, designed, or used as living quarters for one family only. Individual bathrooms and complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, shall always be included in each “dwelling unit.” • Easement: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation or another person or entity. • Erosion: The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments, or the wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice and gravity. • Exotic or Wild Animals: means any living member of the animal kingdom including those born or raised in captivity except the following: domestic dogs, domestic cats, common farm animals, rodents, fish, non-poisonous reptiles, common caged birds and invertebrates. • Family: One or more related persons or two or less unrelated persons occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit provided that all related persons are related by blood, marriage or adoption. All related persons are limited to the spouse, parents, grandparents, grandchildren, stepchildren, sons, daughters, brothers or sisters of the owner or the tenant or of the owner's or the tenant's spouse. Domestic servants employed on premises may be housed on the premises without being counted as a family. The term “family” shall not be construed to mean fraternity, sorority, club, student center, group care homes, foster homes and is to be distinguished from persons occupying a boarding house, rooming house, hotel, or apartment unit as herein defined. • Family day care center: A private residence in which a business, registered by the State of Georgia and licensed by the City of Acworth, operated by any person who receives compensation for supervising and caring for no fewer than three and no more than eight children under eighteen years of age, who are not residents in the same private residence for fewer than 24 hours per day. • Farm Winery: Farm winery means a domestic manufacturer of wine in quantities of less than 100,000 gallons of wine per calendar year, that is licensed by the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1, or as may be amended from time to time. Provided a license is issued as required by this chapter, a farm winery is authorized to sell wine by the package, by the drink and operate a wine tasting facility on the premises of the farm winery without additional license requirements, except as is required by state or federal law. For purposes of this section, the tasting room shall be limited to a single room. Licensed premises means the premises for which the farm winery license is issued or property located contiguous to the farm winery and owned by the winery. • Fence: An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land. • Flag lot: A lot that sits behind lots which face directly onto a street with access provided to the bulk of the lot by means of a narrow corridor, whether providing the minimum amount of street frontage and width or not. • Floodplain: That area within the 100 year regional flood contour elevation subject to periodic flooding as designated by the public works director based upon the U.S. Corp. of Engineers Flood Plain Information Reports and other federal, state and county hydraulic studies. • Floor area: The total area of all floors of a building as measured to the outside surfaces of exterior walls and including halls, stairways, elevator shafts, excluding attached garages, porches, balconies  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 196 11/18/21   and unfinished basements. • Floor area ratio (FAR): A mathematical expression determined by dividing the total floor area of a building by the area of the lot on which it is located as: Floor area/Lot area = Floor area ratio • Frontage: The length of any property line of a premises which abuts public right-of-way. • Fraternity or sorority house: A dwelling maintained exclusively for members affiliated with an academic college or university or other professional recognized institutions of higher learning. • Funeral home: A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial and the display of the deceased and ceremonies connected therewith before burial or cremation. • Garage, commercial: A commercial structure or any portion thereof in which one or more automobiles are housed, or kept or repaired; not including exhibition or showrooms or storage of cars for sale. • Garage, private residential: A structure which is accessory to a residential building and which is used for the parking and storage of vehicles owned and operated by the residents thereof, and which is not a separate commercial enterprise available to the general public. • Grade: An average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building or structure. • Green space: Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment. • Group home: A dwelling shared by non-related individuals who live together as a single housekeeping unit and in a long-term family-like environment in which staff persons provide care, education and participation in community activities for the residents with the primary goal of enabling the residents to live as independently as possible in order to reach their maximum potential. This use shall also apply to homes for the handicapped; however, the term “handicapped” shall not include current illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance or alcohol, nor shall it include any person whose residency in the home would constitute a direct threat to the health and safety of other individuals. The term “group home for the handicapped” shall not include alcohol or drug treatment centers, work release facilities for convicts or ex-convicts, or other housing serving as an alternative to incarceration. • Halfway House: A temporary residential living arrangement for persons leaving an institutional setting and in need of a supportive living arrangement in order to readjust to living outside the institution. These are persons who are receiving therapy and counseling from support staff who are present when residents are present, for the following purposes: 1) to help them recuperate from the effects of drug or alcohol addiction; 2) to help them reenter society while housed under supervision while under the constraints of alternatives to imprisonment including, but not limited to, prerelease, work release, or probationary programs; or 3) to help persons with family or school adjustment problems that require specialized attention and care in order to achieve personal independence. • Health department: shall mean the Cobb County Health Department. • Health practitioner: A doctor, dentist, chiropractor but not including a veterinarian • Height: The vertical distance between the highest part of a structure, sign or its supporting structure, whichever is higher, and the ground. The vertical distance from the grade, or its equivalent, to the highest point of the under side of the ceiling beams, in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof, and to the mean level of the under side of the rafters between the eaves and the ridge of the gable, hip or gambrel roof. • Heliport: Any area, either at ground level or elevated on a structure, licensed or approved for the loading and takeoff of helicopters, and including auxiliary facilities such as parking, waiting room, fueling and maintenance equipment. • High rise residential development: A building or buildings of at least five stories containing multi- family dwelling units and developed in accordance with the provisions of this article. • Historic district: A district consisting of various zones which have substantial historic, architectural  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 197 11/18/21   and/or cultural significance. These areas shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map. • Hobby: A pursuit outside ones regular occupation engaged in for relaxation and nonprofit making. • Home for the aged: Any multifamily residential use limited to occupation by persons age 62 or older, with exception of managerial personnel. HUD elderly housing and handicapped housing; provided no health care services are furnished other than communication systems. • Hospital: A building or portion thereof designed or used for therapeutic treatment of bed patients who are physically or mentally ill. • Hotel: A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided for transient guests, and offered to the public for compensation and which ingress and egress to and from all rooms are made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge at all hours. • Improvement: Any man-made item which becomes part of, placed upon, or is affixed to, real estate. • Impervious surface: A surface that has been compacted or covered with a layer of material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration by water including streets, roofs, sidewalks, parking lots and other similar structures. • Industrial park: A large tract of land that has been planned, developed and operated as an integrated facility for a number of individual industrial uses, including warehousing and distribution, with special attention to circulation, parking, utility needs, aesthetics, and compatibility. • Junk: Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material or debris, whether or not stored or used in conjunction with dismantling, processing, salvage, storage, baling, disposal or other use or disposition. • Junk vehicles: Any wrecked or non-operable automobile, truck or other vehicle. • Junk yard: Any land or building or other structure used for the storage, collection, processing or conversion of any worn out, cast off, or discarded metal, paper, glass or other materials which is ready for destruction, or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion to some use. • Kennel: Any location where boarding, caring for and keeping of more than a total of four dogs or cats or other animals or combination thereof (except litter of animals of not more than six months of age) is carried on, and also raising of show, working, hunting animals. • Light automotive repair: an indoor repair establishment (no outside storage) for performing light automotive and small truck repair (under one ton) such as brakes, oil changes, lubrication, transmission, belts, hoses, inspections and the like. • Livestock: Poultry, cattle, swine, horses, mink, rabbits, sheep, goats or any other domestic animal used for consumption. • Lot: The basic development unit, also called parcel, with fixed boundaries, used or intended to be used by one building and its accessory building and not divided by any public road or alley. • Lot, corner: A lot fronting on two streets at their intersection. • Lot, substandard: A lot not meeting the required minimum lot dimensions of the zoning district it is in. • Lot coverage: That amount of land covered or permitted to be covered by a building(s) excluding parking areas, driveways and walkways but including accessory structures measured in terms of a percentage of the total lot area. • Lot depth: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear lot line, or the distance between the midpoint of the front lot line and midpoint of the rear lot line. • Lot line: A line of record bounding a lot which divides one lot from another lot or from a public or private street or any other public space. • Lot width: The distance between the side lot line measured along the front building line of the lot as determined by the prescribed minimum front setback requirement. • Lot of record: A lot which is part of an approved subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Cobb County; or a parcel of land, the deed to which has been recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Cobb County. • Major side setback: The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line and the  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 198 11/18/21   property line which abuts any street frontage not considered as the front setback. • Manufactured home: A structure transportable in one or more sections and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. This unit must bear a HUD certificate. Note: Manufactured housing is regulated by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401-5426, pursuant to which the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) promulgated regulations related to construction and safety. 24 C.F.R. §§ 3280.1-3280.904. • Materials recovery facility: A solid waste handling facility that provides for the extraction from solid waste of recoverable materials, materials suitable for use as a fuel or soil amendment, or any combination of such materials. • Mini-warehouse: A structure containing separate storage spaces of varying sizes leased or rented on a individual basis. • Minor side setback: The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line and the side property line, provided such property line does not abut any street, public or private. • Mobile home: Housing unit that is similar to a manufactured home, but does not bear the HUD certificate. Due to health, safety and general welfare reasons these units are no longer allowed. • Modular home: A home that is manufactured in a remote facility and then delivered, in whole or parts, to their intended site of use. It is built to local building codes in a controlled, environmentally protected building center using precise and efficient construction technology. A modular home is not to be interpreted as a manufactured home (see definition for manufactured home). • Motel: A building in which lodging or board and lodging is provided for transient guests and offered to the public for compensation with access to each unit directly from the outside. • Nonconforming use, building, lot, parcel of land: A legally existing use or building which fails to comply with any provision of this article either at the effective date of this article or as the result of subsequent amendments. • Nursing home: A home for aged or ill persons licensed by the State of Georgia as such in which persons are provided with food, shelter and medical care for compensation; but not including hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to diagnosis and treatment. • Occupant: The individual or individuals in actual possession of a premises. • Office, general: Any building or part of a building in which one or more persons are employed in the management or direction of an agency, business, organization, but excludes such uses as retail sales, manufacture, assembly or storage of goods, or places of assembly and amusement. • Office, professional: Any building or part of a building in which one or more persons are employed in the management or direction of an agency, business, organization staffed by professionally qualified persons and their staff. Examples of qualified professions typically are licensed by the State of Georgia and include, but are not limited to, architects, real estate brokers, health service practitioners, accountants, engineers and attorneys. • Office Service – A location for an office and business distribution/service facility and assembly process that does not emit noise, vibration, smoke, gas, fumes, odors, or radiation, and is entirely located within an enclosed building that does not involve the manufacturing or fabrication of any products. • Official thoroughfare map: The Thoroughfare Map of the City of Acworth as adopted and amended. • Official zoning map: A legally adopted map that conclusively shows the location and boundaries of zoned districts. • Off-street parking space: A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle that is directly accessible to an access aisle, and which is not located on a dedicated street right-of-way. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 199 11/18/21   • Open space: Area set aside, designated or reserved for outdoor enjoyment preserved as natural areas, designed as a park or recreational area, or designed as a plaza, square, or similar open space type. • Outdoor storage: The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods, junk, material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours. • Parcel: The basic development unit, also called lot, with fixed boundaries, used or intended to be used by one building and its accessory building and not divided by any public road or alley. • Parking area: Any public or private land area used for parking vehicles including parking lots, garages, private driveways and legally designated areas of public streets. • Parking lot: Any designated area designed for temporary accommodation of motor vehicles in normal operating condition. • Parking space: Any area for the exclusive parking of a single vehicle. • Permanent sign: Any sign attached securely to a building, roof, wall, or canopy or the ground by means of concrete, bolts, metal braces or treated wood or cedar, and continuing in the same state or without essential change to the sign structure. • Permit: Written governmental permission issued by an authorized official, empowering the holder thereof to do some act not forbidden by law, but not allowed without such authorization. • Permitted use: Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the restrictions applicable to that zoning district. • Personal care home: A facility licensed by the State of Georgia for the transitional residency of persons incapable of independent living, within which are provided living and sleeping facilities, meal preparation, laundry services, transportation services and routine social and medical appointments and counseling. • Pharmacy: A place where medicines are compounded or dispensed. • Planned development: A tract of land developed based on a plan which allows for flexibility of design not available under normal zoning district requirements. • Planned Shopping Center: Commercial development which is approved site-plan specific and allows for minor reductions of bulk area requirements typically in exchange for greenspace/openspace and other amenities. Also allows for uniqueness of site and architectural design. • Planning Commission: shall mean the Planning Commission for the City of Acworth, Georgia. Also referred to as the Planning and Zoning Board. • Plat: A map representing a tract of land, showing the boundaries and location of individual properties and streets. • Plat, final: The final map of all or a portion of a subdivision or site plan which is presented to the planning commission for final approval. • Plat, preliminary: A map indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision or site plan which is submitted to the proper review authority for consideration and approval. • Portable storage container: any self-supporting metal container, usually metal or metal-framed, designed and used for the storage of personal or business property of a nonhazardous nature which is typically rented or leased to owners or occupants of property for their temporary use and which is typically delivered and removed by truck. • Public works director: The person vested by the city manager with the responsibility of directing the operations of building inspections, fleet transportation, sanitation, street and traffic administration, street department, and traffic services. • Recovered materials: Those materials which have known use, reuse, or recycling potential; can be feasibly used, reused, or recycled; and have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream for sale, use, reuse, or recycling, whether or not requiring subsequent separation and processing. • Recovered materials processing facility: A facility engaged solely in the storage, processing, and resale or reuse of recovered materials. Such term shall not include a solid waste handling facility; provided, however, any solid waste generated by such facility shall be subject to all applicable laws  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 200 11/18/21   and regulations relating to such solid waste. • Recreational vehicles: Boat trailers and any type of portable structure without permanent foundations, which can be towed, hauled or driven and may be designed as temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use, and including travel trailers, truck campers on or off the truck, camping trailers and self-propelled motor homes. • Recycling Collection Containers: Any container dedicated for the sole purpose of collecting recyclable waste material, including but not limited to, newspapers, glass, plastic, metal cans (of all types), mixed papers, and cardboard, which are separated from other garbage for the purpose of recycling. • Recycling collection point: A primary or accessory use that serves as a neighborhood drop-off point for temporary storage of recoverable resources with no processing of such items taking place. • Residence: A home or dwelling utilized as living quarters. • Residential district: Any zone consisting primarily of residential dwelling units. • Rest home: See Home for the aged. • Retail professional services: Establishments providing services or entertainment, as opposed to products, to the general public, including eating and drinking places, hotels and motels, finance, real estate and insurance, personal services, motion pictures, amusement and recreation services, health, educational and social services, museums and galleries. • Retail trade: Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the general public and for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods. • Right-of-access: The legal authority to enter or leave a property. • Right-of-way: A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced dedication, prescription or condemnation and intended to be occupied or occupied by a road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary storm sewer and other similar uses. • Roll-off trash container: means a large metal container designed and used for the temporary storage of refuse, rubbish, trash, garbage, junk, debris, offal, or any material rejected as useless and fit only to be thrown away. Such container is typically rented or leased to owners or occupants of property for their temporary use and which is typically delivered and removed by truck. This term shall not be interpreted to refer to a “trash container” or “dumpster” that is stored in a more permanent manner on the property, and further is required to be screened from public view. This term shall not be interpreted to include recycling facilities. • Rooming house: See boarding house. • School: State, county, city church or other schools, public or private, as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state, and vocational schools, colleges, post-high school learning centers. • Setbacks: The required space between a property line and a building or specified structure. The graphic illustration labeled “setback definitions” is adopted by reference and made part of the zoning ordinance. • Setback, front: The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line and the front property line. In cases where a lot has more than one frontage on public right-of-way, the front setback shall be determined according to Section 67.4 of the zoning ordinance, “Corner Lots”. The graphic illustration labeled “setback definitions” is adopted by reference and made part of the zoning ordinance. • Setback, major side: The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line and the property line which abuts any street frontage not considered as the front setback. The graphic illustration labeled “setback definitions” is adopted by reference and made part of the zoning ordinance. • Setback, minor side: The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line and the side property line, provided such property line does not abut any street, public or private. The graphic  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 201 11/18/21   illustration labeled “setback definitions” is adopted by reference and made part of the zoning ordinance. • Setback, rear: The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line and the rear property line. The rear property line shall be that which is opposite a “front setback”, as defined in the zoning ordinance definitions and Section 67.4. • Shopping center: A group of commercial establishments constructed as a singular entity with customer and employee parking provided on-site. • Sidewalk: A paved, surfaced or leveled area, paralleling and usually separated from the street, used as a pedestrian walkway. • Sign: Any structure, part thereof, or device attached thereto or painted or represented thereon or any material or thing, illuminated or otherwise, which displays or includes any numeral, letter, word, model, banner, emblem, insignia, device, trademark or other representation used as or in the nature of an announcement, advertisement, direction or designation of any person, group, organization, place, commodity, product, service, business, profession, enterprise or industry which is located upon any land or any building or upon a window. The flag, emblem or other insignia of a nation, government unit, educational, charitable or religious group shall not be included. • Sign, animated: A sign with action or motion with moving characters or flashing colors which require electrical energy, including wind actuated elements, such as flags or banners. This term does not include time and temperature or revolving signs. • Sign, announcement: A single face non-illuminated professional or announcement sign, not exceeding two square feet in area, and attached wholly to a building, window or door. Where such sign only includes emergency information, business hours, credit cards honored and other accessory information it shall be known as an “incidental use” sign not requiring a permit. • Sign, building identification: A wall sign used to identify or indicate the name of a building. • Sign, canopy: A sign imposed upon or painted on any roof-like structure either permanently or temporarily extended over a sidewalk or walkway, which can be mounted flush or suspended. • Sign, changeable copy: A sign that is designed so that characters, letters, or illustrations can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or surface of the sign. • Sign, construction: A temporary sign erected on the premises on which construction is taking place, during the period of such construction, indicating the names of the architects, engineers, landscape architects, contractors or similar artisans, and the owners, financial supporters, sponsors, and similar individuals or firms having a role or interest with respect to the structure or project. • Sign, detached: A permanent sign affixed to the ground which is wholly independent of any building for support. This term includes portable display signs. • Sign, directory: A sign containing information relative to the location, distance to, entrance to, and exit from structures, or convenient for visitors coming on the property, including signs marking entrances and exists, parking areas, circulation direction, rest rooms, and pick up and delivery areas, or land use activities. • Sign, event: A temporary sign advertising private sales of personal property such as “house sales,” “garage sales,” “rummage sales” and the like or private not-for-profit events such as picnics, carnivals, game nights, art and craft shows and Christmas tree sales. • Sign, flashing: A sign, the illumination of which is not kept constant in intensity at all times when in use, and which exhibits sudden or marked changes in lighting effects. • Sign, general advertising: A detached sign which has a sign area greater than 250 square feet. • Sign, illuminated: A sign illuminated directly or indirectly by gas, electricity or other artificial light including reflective or fluorescent light. • Sign, marquee: A projection sign attached to a roofed structure of a building which may project over public or private sidewalk or rights-of-way. • Sign, monument: A free standing, detached sign in which the width of the support structure (base) is  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 202 11/18/21   no less than ¼ the overall height of the sign. The base shall not count toward the area of the sign. • Sign, on-premise: Any sign the content of which relates to the premises on which it is located, referring to the name, location, products, persons, accommodations, services or activities of or on those premises, or the sale, lease, or construction of those premises, or conveying any other message regardless of whether said message relates to the premises where the sign is located. • Sign, personal expression: A detached sign located on private property containing non-commercial messages of the property owner. Obscene messages are prohibited. • Sign, political: Any sign used in connection with political campaigns or civic non-commercial health, safety and welfare campaigns. • Sign, portable display: A mobile/temporary, electrical or non-electrical changeable copy sign that is mounted on a trailer type frame with or without wheels or skids or portable wood or metal frame and not permanently attached to the ground. • Sign, projection: A sign which is attached to the building wall and which extends more than 18 inches from the face of such wall. • Sign, real estate: A temporary sign advertising the sale, or lease of the property on which it is located. • Sign, real estate directional: A sign which conveys directions to a specific property for sale or lease, such as a real estate development, residential subdivision, apartment or condominium, home for sale, apartment for rent, or any other property for sale or lease. • Sign, roof: A sign that is mounted on the roof of a building or which is wholly dependent upon a building for support and which projects above the point of a building with a flat roof, the eave line of a building with a gambrel, gable or hip roof or the deck line of a building with a mansard roof. • Sign, temporary: A display, informational sign, banner, or other advertisement device with or without a structural frame, not permanently attached to a building, structure or the ground and intended for a limited period of display, including real estate signs, accessory temporary window or display case signs, and decorative displays for holidays, or public demonstrations. This definition does not include portable display signs. • Sign, vehicular: Any sign on an operable vehicle or any vehicle parked temporarily, incidental to its principal use for transportation. This definition shall not include signs which are being transported to a site for erection. • Sign, wall: Any sign attached to or erected against a wall which is an integral part of the building, and projects no more than 18 inches from the wall of the building. Such a sign may be constructed without constituting an encroachment into a required side or front yard setback line. A single face sign which is in any manner attached or fixed flat to an exterior wall of a building or structure. Individual letters in addition to the “box type” (i.e., letters and symbols on an attached backing) sign may also be installed. • Sign, window: A sign affixed to or displayed within 1 foot of a window in any manner so as to be visible from a public right-of-way. • Sign area: The entire face of a sign, its supporting structure and all wall work including illuminated tubing incidental to its decoration. In the case of an open sign made up of individual letters, figures, or designs attached directly to the building or standard the space between such letters, figures or designs shall be included as part of the sign area. When a sign has parallel sides or where the interior angle formed by the faces is less than 45°, the sign shall be considered double-faced. The calculation for a double-faced sign shall be the area of one face only. The copy area of all “V” or “L” shaped signs with an internal angle of greater than 45° shall be considered as a single face. If the faces of a double-face sign are of unequal area, the area of the sign shall be taken as the area of the larger face. • Sign clearance: The vertical distance from the established finished grade of the sidewalk or ground to the lower edge of a sign. • Site plan: The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown the existing and proposed conditions of the lot including: topography, vegetation, drainage, flood plains, marshes and  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 203 11/18/21   waterways; green spaces, walkways, means of ingress and egress, utility services, landscaping, structures and signs, lighting, and screening devices; any other information that reasonably may be required in order that an informed decision can be made by the approving authority. • Solid waste handling facility: Any facility the primary purpose of which is the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposal, or any combination thereof, of solid waste. • Spite Strip: A piece of land used to separate a street or road rights-of-way from adjoining property to preclude access to such rights-of-way. • Story: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it and including those finished basements used for the principal use with a floor area greater than 50% of the story above. • Street: A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane, alley, or other way. • Street, alley: A service way, at the rear or side of property, permanently reserved as a means of secondary vehicular access to abutting property; not intended for general traffic circulation. • Street, arterial: A street shown as an arterial street on the current official thoroughfare map. • Street, collector: A street shown as a collector street on the current official thoroughfare map. • Street, local: A street shown on the current official thoroughfare map as a local street. • Street, private: Any right-of-way or area set aside to provide vehicular access within a development which has not been dedicated to, nor accepted by the city, and which is not maintained by the city. • Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground. • Subdivider: A person, firm or corporation having such a proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance or proceedings to subdivide such land under this article, or the authorized agent of such person, firm or corporation for the purpose of proceeding under these regulations. • Subdivision: All divisions of a tract or parcel of for the purpose (whether immediate or future) of sale, lease, legacy or building development; it includes all divisions of land involving a new street to which the public has access (whether private or public) or change in an existing street, and includes re- subdivision, and where appropriate to the context, related to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided. • Swale: A depression in the ground which channels runoff. • Tavern: An establishment used primarily for the serving of liquor by the drink to the general public and where food or packaged liquors may be served or sold only as accessory to the primary use. • Tract: An area, parcel, piece of land, or property which is the subject of a development application. • Trailer: Any vehicle or structure constructed so as to permit occupancy thereof as sleeping or living quarters, or the conduct of any business, trade or occupation, or use as selling or advertising device, or use of storage or conveyance for chattel, tools, equipment or machinery, and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways and streets propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power. This term shall include, but not be limited to: automobiles, motorcycles, boat utility trailers, trailer coaches and manufactured homes. • Trailer, camping: Shall mean any portable structure or vehicle designed for highway travel at legal speed limits without special permit which is intended for temporary living. • Townhome: A single-family attached dwelling unit which is part of a group of three (3) or more such units separated by a common party wall where each unit extends from the foundation to the roof with a separate means of egress. • Variance: A device which grants a property owner relief from certain provisions of a zoning ordinance when, because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical condition of  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 204 11/18/21   the property, compliance would result in a particular hardship as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make more money. • Vehicle: any self-propelled machine designed for transporting a person or persons or property. A “vehicle” may be motorized, solar or battery operated or any combination thereof. A “vehicle” may be utilized for transport over roads, all-terrain or waterways. Examples of a “vehicle” include, but are not limited to, cars, motorcycles, trucks, golf carts, ATVs, boats or other self-propelled watercraft, RVs, campers, riding lawnmowers, etc. • Waste transfer station: A facility used for the temporary storage and collection of waste materials. • Yard: An open space on the same lot with a building or building group lying to the front, rear, or side of a building extending to the nearest lot line. • Zero lot line: The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one or more of the building's sides rest directly on a lot line. • Zone: A specifically delineated area or district in a municipality within which regulations and requirements uniformly govern the use, placement, spacing and size of land and buildings. • Zoning ordinance: The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Acworth, Georgia as adopted and amended. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 205 11/18/21   CITY OF ACWORTH SUBDIVISION AND DEVLEOPMENT REGULATIONS  An Ordinance To Regulate and Control the Development of Residential Subdivisions. Now, Therefore, the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen of the City of Acworth Hereby Ordain As Follows:  Section 1. Purpose and Intent This section [ordinance] is enacted pursuant to the following purposes: (1) To encourage the development of an economically sound and stable community; (2) To assure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land development; (3) To assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, to new land developments; (4) To assure the adequate provision of needed public green space and building sites in land developments through the dedication or preservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes; and (5) To assure, in general, the wise development of new areas. Section 2. Conflicting Regulations Whenever the provisions of this ordinance and those of some other resolution, ordinance or statute apply to the same subject matter, that requiring the highest, or more strict, standard shall govern. Section 3. Approval by Mayor and Board of Aldermen Required No land in the City of Acworth shall hereafter be subdivided and offered for sale, or sold or otherwise transferred in ownership by reference to or other use of plat of a subdivision until said plat has received final approval by the mayor and board of aldermen, after which said plat shall be duly recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Cobb County. The description by metes and bounds in the document of sale or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from the regulations. Section 4. Issuance of Building Permit No building permit shall be issued for and no building or other structure shall be erected on any lot within the City of Acworth unless the street giving access to the lot upon which said building is proposed to be placed shall be accepted or opened as, or shall have otherwise received the legal status of a public street prior to that time or unless such street corresponds in its location and lines with a street shown on a subdivision plat approved by the city's planner or on a street location and accepted by the mayor and board of aldermen. Section 5. Definitions When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Words not defined herein shall be construed as having the meaning given by common and ordinary use. The term "shall" is mandatory. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future. (1) Administrator. The city manager or his designee. (2) City plan. City official zoning map. The official zoning map is hereby incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. A copy of the official zoning map shall be maintained on file with the city clerk for inspection and review by the public. (3) Clerk of superior court. Shall mean the clerk of the superior court of Cobb County, Georgia. (4) Health department. Shall mean the Cobb County Health Department. (5) Major thoroughfare. Shall mean Highway 92, Main Street, and any other street designated as such  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 206 11/18/21   by ordinance or resolution. (6) Preliminary approval. The conferral of certain rights, prior to final approval, after specific elements of a development or site plan have been approved by the proper reviewing authority and agreed to by the applicant. (7) Street. (a) A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane, alley, or other way. (b) "Collector street" shall mean a street onto which an entrance to a subdivision is located, intersects, or crosses. (c) "Industrial street" is a street located and used primarily for industrial traffic in an approved industrial tract. (d) "Minor street" shall mean any street which is not a major thoroughfare, a collector street, or an industrial street. (e) "Cul-de-sac" is a minor street with only one outlet, sometimes called a "dead-end" street. (f) Subdivider. A person, firm or corporation having such a proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance or proceedings to subdivide such land under this ordinance, or the authorized agent of such person, firm or corporation for the purpose or proceeding under these regulations. (g) Swale. A depression in the ground which channels runoff. (h) Zoning ordinance. Shall mean the zoning ordinance of the City of Acworth, Georgia. Section 6. General Intent It is the intent of these regulations that the administrator shall represent the city in all negotiations with the subdivider, and shall handle all negotiations between the city and the subdivider, for such changes as may be necessary in the subdivision plats. Final approval of all subdivision plats shall be by the administrator and the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City of Acworth, Georgia. Section 7. Notice to Subdividers It shall be the duty of the administrator to give at least five days' notice to the subdivider before the date on which the Mayor and Board of Aldermen will vote to approve or disapprove the subdivider's subdivision. Section 8. Pre-application Procedures Prior to the preparation of the subdivision plat, the subdivider may confer with the administrator by submitting the pre-application plats and data specified in the plats and data section. Section 9. Procedure for Conditional Approval of Preliminary Plat (1) On reaching conclusions informally under the provisions of section 8 regarding his general program and objectives, the subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat, together with supplementary data as specified in the plats and data section. (2) The original and eight copies of the preliminary plat and supplementary data specified shall be submitted to the administrator upon his request. The administrator shall investigate the preliminary plat and supplemental data to determine whether it complies with these regulations and other laws of the city, and shall so inform the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of his findings. (3) The Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall then review all preliminary plats and should the administrator receive no comments from the Mayor and Board of Aldermen within seven days it shall be deemed to be conditionally approved. (4) Within ten days after receiving the conditional approval of the preliminary plat(s), the administrator shall notify the subdivider of the action taken and return one copy of the preliminary plat to him, with all comments, actions taken, and changes required, if any, noted  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 207 11/18/21   thereon. (5) Conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of conditional approval of the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as guide to the preparation of the final plat, which will be submitted for approval by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen for recording upon fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations and the conditions of the conditional approval, if any. Section 10. Procedure for Approval of Final Plat (1) The final plat to be prepared as specified in the plats and data section shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved, and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and develop at the time, provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements of these obligations. (2) The original and eight copies of the final plat and supplementary data, as specified in the plats and data section, shall be submitted to the administrator at least 20 days prior to the meeting of the Mayor and Board of Aldermen at which it is to be considered, and within six months after approval of the preliminary plat, otherwise such approval shall become null and void unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the administrator. (3) The administrator shall investigate the final plat and supplementary data to determine whether it complies with these regulations and other laws of the city and whether it conforms to the approved preliminary plat and recommended changes and shall so inform the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of his findings. (4) Upon approval of the final plat by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, the administrator shall have a copy of the final plat recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Cobb County, Georgia, within 30 days. The subdivider shall be responsible for the recording fee. The original plat shall be returned to the surveyor or engineer and the administrator shall be furnished a reproducible copy of the final plat to be filed in City records. If disapproved, the reasons therefore shall be expressed on or attached to said plats. Section 11. Combinations and Re-plats Where separate lots or parcels of land are proposed to be combined or re-platted, they shall be reviewed by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, and if found to result in the same number or fewer lots or parcels, they shall require final approval by the Mayor and Bboard of Aldermen. If, however, upon review, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen find that such combinations or re-platting does result in a greater number of lots or parcels, such combination or re-platting must be subjected to the requirements of these regulations and receive conditional approval by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen before recording such plats. Section 12. Small Subdivisions Subdivisions of five lots or less not requiring dedication of additional street right-of-way and not requiring additional street improvements or utility installations other than house connections are exempted from the requirements and procedures of section 9, "Procedure for Conditional Approval of Preliminary Plat." Section 13. Boundary Line Revisions Minor revision of bearings and distances due to omissions or errors are to be approved by the administrator. Any revised plat must be recorded. Section 14. Pre-Application Procedures The following plats and data are required as supplements to the procedures outlined under procedure section, section 8, "Pre-application Procedures":  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 208 11/18/21   (1) General Subdivision Information. A description or outline of the existing conditions of the site and the proposed development. This information may include data in existing covenants, land characteristics, and available community facilities and utilities, and information describing the subdivision proposal, such as number of residential lots, typical lot area, business areas, playgrounds, park areas, and other public areas within the subdivision. (2) Location Map. Showing in sketch form the relationship of the proposed subdivision to the surrounding area. (3) Sketch Plan. Showing in simple sketch the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in relation to existing conditions. Section 15. Plats and Data for Conditional Approval Eight copies of the following plats and data are required as supplements to the procedures outlined under section 9, "Procedures for Conditional Approval of Preliminary Plat." (1) Topographical Data. Required as a basis for the preliminary plat in section 16. The following information and other pertinent data as required to support the preliminary design of the proposed development, shall be submitted: (a) Boundary lines - bearings and distances. (b) Easement - location, width and purpose. (c) Streets on and adjacent to the tract - name and right-of-way width and location; type, width and elevation of surfacing; any legally established centerline elevations; walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, etc. (d) Utilities on and adjacent to the tract-location, size and invert elevation of sanitary and storm and combined sewers; location and size of water mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone poles, and streetlights; if water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the tract, indicate the direction and distance to and size of nearest ones, showing invert elevation of sewers. (e) Ground elevation of the tract - from an original topographic survey, based on a sea level datum plane approved by the administrator: for land that slopes less than approximately two percent show spot elevation at all brakes in grade, along all drainage channels or swales, and at selected points not more than 100 feet apart in all directions; for land that slopes more than approximately two percent either show contours with an interval of not more than five feet if ground slope is regular, and such information is sufficient for planning purposes, or show contours with an interval of not more than two feet if necessary because of irregular land or need for more detailed data for preparing plans and construction drawings. (f) Subsurface conditions on the tract - if required by the administrator, location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and ground water conditions; depth of five feet; location and results of soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are proposed. (g) Other conditions on the tract - watercourses, marshes, rock outcrop, and other significant features. (h) Proposed public improvements - highway or other major improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract. (i) Key plan - or vicinity map showing location of the relating or surrounding area and streets. (j) Title and certificate - present tract designation according to official records in office of appropriate recorder; title under which proposed subdivision is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owner, designer, and person to whom official notices of hearing are to be sent, notation stating acreage, graphic scales, north arrow, datum, benchmarks; certification of registered civil engineer or surveyor; date of survey. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 209 11/18/21   Section 16. Preliminary Plat The preliminary plat shall be at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one inch or larger; it shall show all existing conditions required in section 15(1), "Topographical Data," above and shall show all proposals, including the following: (1) Streets - right-of-way and roadway widths, approximate grades. (2) Other Right-of-Way Easements - location, width and purpose. (3) Location and Size of Utilities - if not shown on other exhibits. (4) Lot Lines. (5) Sites - if any, to be reserved or dedicated for parks, playgrounds, or other public uses. (6) Sites - if any, for multifamily dwellings, shopping centers, churches, industry or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-family dwellings. (7) Minimum Building Setback Lines. (8) Site Data - including number of residential lots, typical lot size, and acres in park. (9) Title, Graphic Scale, North Arrow, and Date. (10) Scenic Easement - the purpose of a scenic easement is to preserve and maintain the natural topography, vegetation and wildlife in an undisturbed environment which may be subject to periodic inundation or is necessary for additional buffer area. The City shall not maintain nor improve the property in a scenic easement and the property owner shall not remove any vegetation or wildlife nor make any improvements or add any structures. Diseased, decaying or damaged timbers which are likely to damage property outside the easement may be removed under the supervision of the City. The easement shall not be cleared, mowed or otherwise altered. Section 17. Other Preliminary Plans When required by the administrator, the following may be required: (1) Preliminary Storm Drainage Plan, which shall contain the following information: (a) Location of proposed drainage ways, streams and ponds in the subdivision. (b) Location and size of proposed drainage structures, including culvert, bridges, pipes, drop inlets and headwalls. (c) Area of land contributing runoff to each drainage structure, and name of formula and runoff constant used. (d) Location of easements and right-of-way for drainage ways maintenance accesses therefore [therefore]. (e) Typical cross section of each drainage way. (f) Direction of water flow throughout the subdivision. (2) Preliminary Sanitary Sewer Plan, which shall contain the following information: (a) Location and size of all existing and proposed sewers in the subdivision and tie points of the subdivision. Location of sewer laterals. (b) Direction of flow of each sewer line. (c) Location of each manhole and other sewerage system appurtenances, including lift stations, oxidation ponds, treatment plant. (3) Preliminary Water Distribution Plan, which shall contain the following information: (a) Location and size of water distribution system, including pipes, valves, fittings, hydrants, high-pressure pumping equipment, and other integral units of the water system. Section 18. Plats and Data for Final Approval The following plats and data are required under the procedures outlined under Section 10, "Procedures for Approval of Final Plat": (1) General Final Plats. One original and eight copies required. The original shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth or other permanent reproducible drafting materials with sheets 18 inches wide by 20 inches long and shall be at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one inch. Where necessary, the plat  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 210 11/18/21   may be on several sheets accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision. For large subdivisions the final plat may be submitted for approval progressively in contiguous sections satisfactory to the administrator. The final plat shall show the following: (a) Primary control points, approved by the administrator, or descriptions and ties to such control points, to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be referred. (b) Tract boundary lines, rights-of-way lines of streets, easements and other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and other sites: with accurate dimensions, bearings, or deflection angles, radii arcs, and central angles of all curves. (c) Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-way. (d) Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easement. Floodplain and floodway boundaries as shown on the Official City of Acworth Flood Boundary and Floodway Map is hereby incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. A copy of the Acworth Flood Boundary and Floodway Map shall be maintained on file with the city clerk for inspection and review by the public. (e) The final plat shall show a number to identify in each block, lot or site and shall be submitted to the appropriate city department for the assignment of street addresses. (f) Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated or planned. (g) Minimum building setback line on all lots and other sites. (h) Location and description of monuments. (i) Name of record owners of adjoining unplatted lands. (j) Name of recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted lands. (k) A certification by surveyor or engineer certifying to accuracy of survey and plat. (l) A certification of title showing that applicant is the land owner. (m) Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights-of-way and any other sites for public use. (n) Title, graphic scale, north arrow and date. (o) A certificate of approval by the administrator, which shall be made when the administrator determines that all required utility installations have been paid for the subdivider and that the subdivider has complied with one of the following alternatives: 1. All utilities and other improvements have been installed in accordance with the requirements of these regulations. 2. A bond or certified check or other acceptable guarantee has been posted with the city in sufficient amount to assure completion of improvements. (p) A certification of approval for recording by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. (q) A copy of the protective covenants suitable for recording. (r) The size, length and location of all surface drainage pipes or structures shall be shown on the final plat. (s) The endorsement and dedications required above shall be substantially as follows and shall be printed on the original plat. 1. "It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property made under my supervision on the ground. "Registered Land Surveyor" "Surveyor Number" 2. "The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto and who in person or through duly authorized agent acknowledges that this plat was made from an actual survey and dedicates the use to the public forever of all alleys, streets and other public places thereon shown for the purpose and consideration therein. "Name of Owner" 3. "This plat has been submitted to and considered by the mayor and board of  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 211 11/18/21   aldermen of Acworth, Georgia, and is approved this day of , 19 . Furthermore the mayor and board of aldermen accept all dedicated right-of- way, public streets, public places and public utility easements for maintenance. "Mayor" (2) Fee Simple Subdivision Final Plat. Fee simple subdivision final plats may be submitted twice. The first submittal shall show the proposed location in blocks or rows of units, along with all required data for a subdivision excluding property lines for individual units. The second submittal shall be made after each individual unit is constructed. The second submitted shall consist of a revision of the first plat and shall depict each individual property line with bearings and distances. (3) Industrial, Commercial and Office Park Subdivision Final Plat. Final plats for industrial, commercial and office park subdivisions shall meet all data requirements of subsection (1) above, except that interior lot lines need not be depicted. Section 19. Examples of Certificates The following are examples of certificates that may be required before a plat may be recorded: (1) Certificate of approval of the storm drainage system. "The storm drainage system shown hereon is properly designed to serve this subdivision and is adequate to serve the drainage area from which storm drainage waters will be carried through this subdivision. It is certified that the information shown hereon is true and correct." "It is further certified that adequate storm drainage easements are provided, where necessary. TABLE INSET:  "Date  Registered Engineer, Surveyor or Landscape Architect Registration Number"  (2) Certificate of Approval of the Sanitary Sewer System. "The sanitary sewer system shown hereon is properly designed, meets City of Acworth specifications, and is adequate to serve the drainage area whose sewage will be carried through this subdivision. It is certified that the information shown hereon is true and correct. TABLE INSET:  "Date  Registered Engineer, Surveyor or Landscape Architect Registration Number"  (3) Certificate of Approval of the Water Distribution System. "The water distribution system shown hereon is properly designed and meets the City of Acworth specifications and is adequate to serve this subdivision. It is certified that the information shown hereon is true and correct. TABLE INSET:   City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 212 11/18/21   "Date Registered Engineer, Surveyor or Landscape Architect Registration Number"  (4) Certificate of Approval of the Septic Tank System. "The septic tank system shown hereon is properly designed and meets the Cobb County Health Department specifications and is adequate to serve each lot of this subdivision. It is certified that the information shown hereon is true and correct. TABLE INSET:  "Date  Registered Engineer, Surveyor or Landscape Architect Registration Number"  Section 20. Conformity All proposed subdivisions shall conform to the official zoning map as follows: (1) The densities established by the zoning ordinances shall be observed by the subdivider and developer. (2) All major thoroughfares crossing or bordering a proposed subdivision are required to be provided in the location and at the right-of-way width designated thereon. Section 21. Street Design A. General. (1) The arrangement, character, extent, locations, and grade of all streets shall be done in accordance with acceptable land planning principles and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, orientation to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of land to be served by such streets. (2) The street pattern shall be so designed as to provide two or more means of access to a major thoroughfare or collector street; however, streets converging upon any one point which would tend to promote congestion shall not be permitted. (3) The street pattern shall be in conformity with the most advantageous development of the entire neighborhood area. Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided and provide normal circulation of traffic within the vicinity. (4) Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic in the subdivision will be discouraged. (5) Subdivisions which abut or have included within the proposed area to be subdivided any major thoroughfare shall provide: (a) A collector street; (b) Reverse-frontage with screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation along the rear property line; (c) Deep lots with rear service; or (d) Other treatments as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic. Intersections of minor subdivision streets with major thoroughfares shall be held to a minimum. B. Unusable Reserve Strips. Unusable reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited. Land shall not be subdivided in a manner which omits part of the original tract or avoids drainage improvements. C. Cul-de-sac. Streets designed to have one end permanently closed shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a minimum roadway diameter of 80 feet. Right-of-way diameter  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 213 11/18/21   shall be 100 feet. A cul-de-sac shall not exceed 700 feet in length. D. Jogs. In no case shall a street jog be permitted on a major thoroughfare. On collector and minor streets, centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall be avoided. E. Minimum Street Right-of-Way Widths. (1) In undeveloped or vacant areas, the administrator shall have the discretion of identifying or classifying streets. (2) The right-of-way widths of streets shall be not less than as follows:  Street Type Right-of-Way Major Thoroughfares 100 feet minimum or greater if specified in official public plans Collector Streets 50 feet Minor Streets 50 feet  (3) The amount of right-of-way deemed reasonable to be required by dedication shall not exceed 100 feet in width. Along both sides of proposed major thoroughfare streets it is deemed reasonable to require an increased front yard or setback of up to 20 feet more than that required by the zoning ordinance. F. Minimum Roadway Width; Paving:  Street Type Paving Width (Measured from back of curb – feet) Major Thoroughfares 52 (Minimum) Collector Streets 28 Minor Streets 24 Industrial Streets 30  (1) Paving Specifications  MINIMUM LOCAL ROADWAY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS*  STREET CATEGORY BASE BINDER SURFACE COAT LOCAL 8” GAB 2” “E” MIX 1” SUPERPAVE  * NOTE: unless otherwise specified by Cobb County DOT or GA DOT on those roads maintained by. a. Residential minor streets and collector streets - 8 inches of crushed stone base (or equivalent), (2”) two inches of asphaltic E-Mix and 1inch of super-pave surface coat. Note: All residential subdivision entrances from feeder street to the point of end of entry to the subdivision must meet commercial standards. All cul-de-sac’s must meet commercial standards. MINIMUM COMMERCIAL ROADWAY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS*  STREET CATEGORY BASE BINDER SURFACE COAT COMMERCIAL 10” 3” “E” MIX 2 ”  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 214 11/18/21   *NOTE: unless otherwise specified by Cobb County DOT or GA DOT on those roads maintained by. b. Commercial/industrial streets - 10 inches of crushed stone base (or equivalent) with 3 inches of asphaltic binder and two 2” inches of asphaltic topping. • Note: All sub-base, base, binder, and surface coat inspections are described below for local and commercial paving. No paving will be allowed at temperatures below 40 degrees Fahrenheit, on frozen or saturated ground or base. Moisture content must meet all GDOT standards, tested by an approved lab, if so called for by the Acworth Public Works Department (APWD). All base, asphalt binder and topcoats must conform to GDOT standards for their respective use. The APWD may require design mix specifications prior to placement to ensure compliance. c. Inspections: The following is a list of required inspections at each phase of roadway construction;  Sub-grade: All sub-grades will be inspected for compaction with a roll test, minimum weight of forty (40) U.S. tons, as determined by weigh ticket. If any area fails two (2) scheduled roll tests the contractor will be required to provide independent laboratory test results to confirm compaction at the required areas as determined by the APWD. Sand Cone or Nuclear Densometer testing or other similar test as approved by APWD will be required. No base (stone) is to be installed without first passing sub-grade compaction inspection. Sub-base compaction must meet 98% proctor. Base (GAB): After sub-grade passes compaction test, base material can be installed to the approved specified depth. A roll test will be performed as above. If any area fails two scheduled roll tests the contractor will be required to mitigate these areas to obtain compaction as required above. Binder: Prior to surface coat, binder will be inspected for cracking, washing, raveling, sanding and or any abnormalities. Irregularities must be mitigated prior to surface coat installation. Surface Coat: Inspected upon completion. Corrections as required. G. Street Grades. (1) Street grades shall not exceed the following unless otherwise recommended and approved by the administrator:  Street Type Percent Grade Major thoroughfares 5 Collector Streets 15 Minor Streets 15  (2) Minimum grades of any roadway shall not be less than one percent unless otherwise approved by the administrator. (3) Cross drains shall be approved by the administrator. (4) Vertical curves shall be such as to prevent abrupt change and shall be approved by the administrator. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 215 11/18/21   H. Alignment and Visibility. (1) Minimum radii of horizontal curvature of the centerline shall be not less than 100 feet. (2) Tangent lengths between reverse curves shall be approved by the administrator. A minimum tangent of 100 feet shall be introduced between reverse curves on major thoroughfares. (3) Visibility. Clear horizontal visibility, measured along the centerline, shall be provided for at least 400 feet on major thoroughfares; 300 feet on minor thoroughfares; 200 feet on collector and local streets. (4) Where there are roads in existence, plans for rights-of-way must be so designed as to contemplate elimination of bends, crooks, and other hazardous conditions. I. Intersection. (1) Submission of a grading plan, showing existing conditions and a detailed design for intersections which are unusual or located on different terrains may be required by the administrator. (2) Acute angles at street intersections are to be avoided and in no case will an angle of less than 60 degrees be permitted. (3) Minimum radii of intersections. a. Property lines at all street intersections shall have cords [chords] in place of a radius. The cords [chords] shall connect the points where the radii for beginning and end of curb radius intersects the right-of-way lines. b. Roadway and curb intersections shall be made concentric and shall be rounded by a radius of not less than 25 feet. Section 22. Alleys (a) Alleys may be required in commercial and industrial districts except that the administrator may waive this requirement where other definite and assured provisions are made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and parking, consistent with zoning requirements. (b) Alleys are not permitted in residential districts except when the administrator determines special conditions warrant a secondary means of access. Section 23. Names (a) No street name shall be used which will duplicate by spelling or sound or otherwise be confused with the names of existing streets in the county. Street names are subject to the approval of the administrator. (b) Subdivision names shall not duplicate or be confused with existing names in the county. Subdivision names are subject to approval by the administrator. Section 24. Blocks (a) The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due regard to: (1) Provisions of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use contemplated; (2) Zoning ordinance and health department requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions; (3) Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of street traffic; and (4) Limitations and opportunities of topography. (b) Except where topographic conditions warrant, block lengths shall not exceed 1,200 feet or be less than 600 feet and shall normally be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Section 25. Lots  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 216 11/18/21   (a) The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation, and the minimum building setback line shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use contemplated. (b) Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance and the requirements of the Cobb County Health Department. In such cases where requirements may conflict, the stricter requirement shall govern. (c) Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for off-street parking and loading for the use contemplated. (d) Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets. (e) Each lot shall be provided with access to a public street. (f) Double-frontage and reverse-frontage lots shall be avoided, except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or so as to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. The subdivider shall provide a planting screen easement of not less than 20 feet in width, and across which there shall be no right of access. (g) Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to streets, except on curves where they shall be radial. Section 26. Easements (a) Easements across lot or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided for utilities and drainage where necessary and shall not be less than 15 feet wide. (b) Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm drainage easement or right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such drainage way as approved by the administrator. The width of such drainage easement of [or] right-of-way shall be sufficient to contain the ultimate channel and maintenance way for the tributary area upstream, in no case less than 20 feet, unless approved by the administrator. (c) Lots and easements shall be arranged in such a manner as to eliminate unnecessary easement jogs or offsets and to facilitate the use of easement for power distribution, telephone service, drainage, water and sewer services. Section 27. Drainage and Inundation (a) Adequate provisions shall be made within each subdivision to provide drainage facilities needed within the subdivision taking into account the ultimate development of the tributary area. (b) Off-premises drainage easements and improvements may be required to handle the runoff of subdivisions into the natural drainage channel. (c) Low areas subject to periodic inundation shall not be developed or subdivided unless and until the administrator establishes that: (1) The nature of the land use (i.e., recreation areas) would not lend itself to damage by water to an appreciable extent; or that (2) The area may be filled or improved in such a manner to prevent such periodic inundation; or that (3) Minimum floor elevations may be established to prevent damage to buildings and structures. (d) The administrator may require of the developer or his agent additional engineering information necessary to make decisions on acceptability of development in an area of questionable drainage. Such additional information would be in writing and the certificate of a qualified engineer may be required. (e) Lakes, ponds and similar areas will be accepted for maintenance only if sufficient land is dedicated as a public recreation area or park or if such area constitutes a necessary part of the drainage control system. Such park areas are subject to approval by the administrator. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 217 11/18/21   (f) The maintenance of retention facilities, including but not limited to, retention ponds, shall be the responsibility of the property owner during grading, construction, and following final approval of the completed project. This maintenance obligation shall be binding on future owners, successors and assigns of the property. Section 28. Monuments Monuments shall be placed by the subdivider on all subdivision boundary lots and block corners, angle points, points of curves in streets and at intermediate points as shall be required by the administrator, and shall meet the following specifications: (1) Subdivision boundary monuments shall be iron pins not less than 12 inches long and one-half inch in diameter, or concrete posts. All monuments shall be set flush with the ground. (2) Lot monuments shall be iron pins not less than 12 inches long and one-half inch in diameter set flush with the ground. (3) Other monuments. Where existing monuments have been located and are accurately represented, they may be permitted to remain in position. Section 29. Street and Related Improvements (a) Each subdivider shall be required to install, at his own expense, streets and related improvements according to specifications hereinafter provided. (b) Five copies of the street and related improvements plan, showing the seal of the registered professional engineer, surveyor or landscape architect and showing the proposed streets and related improvements system plan and profile as designed in accordance with the State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II, shall be submitted to, checked and approved by the administrator prior to installation. (1) All streets, except as noted in paragraph (8) below, shall be cleared, grubbed and graded to the full right-of-way width. Finished grades shall be at levels approved by the administrator. (2) Either rolled concrete curbs or integral concrete curbs and gutters, except as noted in paragraph (8) below, shall be installed on all streets. The administrator shall specify which type shall be used. Installation shall be according to the State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II, which is hereby incorporated herein, and is on file with the city clerk. Curbs and gutters in commercial, industrial, institutional or multifamily apartment districts shall be integral type. (3) Where integral type curbs and gutters are used, curb breaks, and driveways to property lines shall be according to the State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II. (4) The administrator may require the installation of sidewalks in accordance with the State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II, near schools and other places of public assembly, in or near commercial areas, and in or near areas of intensive residential development such as apartment areas. (5) Streets shall be paved to the widths set forth in section 21(f) of this ordinance, and measured back to back of curbs. (6) Street pavements shall be installed according to the State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II. (7) In the absence of any standards set forth in this ordinance, the State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II, shall govern. The State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II, are hereby incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. A copy of said specifications shall be maintained on file with[the] city clerk for inspection and review by [the] public. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 218 11/18/21   (8) In certain cases, as determined by the administrator and approved by the mayor and board of aldermen, the subdivider may be required to pave and otherwise improve a reasonable portion of a major thoroughfare in order to ensure proper access to the proposed subdivision. Section 30. Sanitary Sewers (a) Except as herein provided, each lot or other site in a subdivision shall be connected to a public sanitary sewage system by lines of sufficient size to accommodate the anticipated sewage load. Lot service connections shall be stubbed to the property line so that there will be no necessity for cutting into the pavement in order to make future connections. The subdivider shall pay the cost of, or guarantee payment for, the cost of said installation in a manner suitable to the City of Acworth. (b) Five copies of the sewer plan, showing the seal of a registered professional engineer and showing the proposed sewer system in plan and profile as designed in accordance with the State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II, shall be submitted to, checked and approved by the administrator prior to installation. (c) Whenever a sanitary sewage system is not available within a reasonable distance, septic tanks may be permitted upon obtaining special permission of the Cobb County Health Department. For septic tank installation, the minimum lot size shall be one acre with 100 feet frontage, or greater if so required by the health department. The following information shall be submitted to the health department for consideration of septic tank approval: (1) Topographic information for each lot on which a septic tank is to be installed. Contour interval shall not exceed two feet. (2) Location of all drainage facilities either natural or proposed. (3) Percolation data indicated on a plat as specified by the health department. (4) Proposed number of sanitary fixtures per dwelling unit. Section 31. Storm Drainage (a) The subdivider shall pay the cost of, or guarantee payment for, the cost of the storm drainage system in a manner suitable to the City of Acworth, prior to said installation. (b) The storm drainage system may be included in the sanitary sewer plan for subdivision required in section 30, provided the two systems are kept separate. (c) The size, location, and length of all surface drainage pipe or structures shall be shown on final plans and shall be subject to the approval of the administrator. Storm drain pipes 42 inches and smaller carrying stormwater from the street of adjacent property between or through lots shall be extended at least 60 feet behind the building line and in no cases shall be allowed to be discharged at a point where the water would cause damage to any existing or future structure. All cross drain pipes and pipes under the roadway and shoulder shall be reinforced concrete pipe of such gauge and strength according to the height of fill as specified by the state highway specifications. (See section 29(b)(7).) (d) Installation, backfilling and compaction shall be in accordance with the state highway specifications. (See section 29(b)(7).) All pipes shall have minimum cover of one foot and headwalls or inlet basins constructed at end of pipes. No concrete block headwalls shall be permitted. (e) The design of drainage structures shall be based on Talbot's Formula, a minimum constant of 0.8 shall be used, the design drainage area and constant shall be shown on the final plat for each pipe or culvert opening. (f) Any lots within the subdivision which, in the opinion of the administrator, are undesirable for building due to bad drainage conditions shall be excluded and no building shall be permitted thereon until such conditions have been corrected as specified by the administrator. (g) In special cases where it is the desire of the subdivision developer or owner to leave running  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 219 11/18/21   streams open for aesthetic purposes, this may be permitted upon approval by the administrator. Whenever open streams are permitted, such streams shall retain their natural design characteristics and be so designed that they do not present a maintenance problem to the city and that they do not present a hazard to life and safety. (h) Five copies of the plans of the storm drainage system of the subdivisions shall be submitted to, checked and approved by the administrator prior to installation. Said system shall be designed in accordance with the State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II. Section 32. Water Supply System (a) Each lot or other site in a subdivision shall be connected to a public water supply system by lines of sufficient size to accommodate the anticipated water demand for domestic and firefighting purposes. Fire hydrants in residential subdivisions shall be no more than 400 feet from the center of the lot at the building line (distance shall be measured along hose lay). Nonresidential subdivisions shall have fire hydrants no more than 500 feet apart. Lot service connections shall be stubbed in so that there will be no necessity for cutting into any pavement in order to make any future connections. The subdivider shall pay the cost of, or guarantee payment for the cost of the water supply system, in a manner suitable to the City of Acworth. (b) Five copies of the plan of the water supply system of the subdivision, showing the seal of a registered professional engineer, surveyor or landscape architect, shall be submitted to, checked and approved by the administrator prior to installation. Said system shall be designed in accordance with the State of Georgia 1983 State Highway Department Specifications, volumes I and II. Section 33. Coordination of Installation All underground work such as sewers and water lines shall be installed and each backfill compacted before street pavement is laid. Section 34. Experimental Subdivisions (a) The administrator may waive, vary, or modify the standards and requirements of these regulations if, in his judgment, an unusual or experimental subdivision might prove of considerable merit toward: (1) The use of unusual materials in constructing required improvements; and/or (2) A new or untried design concept in the Acworth area which appears promising. (b) Special attention may be given to experimental subdivisions which are related to low-cost housing design in an effort to provide housing for lower income families. The administrator shall require the subdivider to provide a written proposal stating the nature of the experiment. Section 35. Conditions In granting modifications, the administrator may require such conditions as will, in his judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards of requirements so modified. Section 36. Conflict with Other Laws Whenever these subdivision regulations impose more restrictive standards than are required in or under any federal or state law or applicable local ordinances, the requirements of these regulations shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any applicable federal, state or local ordinances require more restrictive standards than are required by these subdivision regulations the provisions of such laws or ordinances shall govern. Section 37. Penalties for Transferring Lot in Unapproved Subdivisions (a) Whoever, being owner or agent of any land located within a subdivision, transfers or sells any  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 220 11/18/21   land in such subdivision before such plat has been approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen and recorded or filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Cobb County, Georgia, shall forfeit and pay a penalty of $100.00 for each lot or parcel so transferred or sold; and the description of such lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties or from the remedies herein provided. (b) The city may enjoin such transfer or sale or agreement by action for injunction brought in any court of equity jurisdiction or may recover the same penalty by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. Section 38. Final Subdivision Plat Previously approved final subdivision plats are exempt from the requirement of this ordinance unless the development of such plans has not been undertaken within a period of two years (24 months) from the date of approval. Section 39. Severability It is hereby declared to be the intention of this ordinance that its sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases are severable; and if any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is declared to be unconstitutional or invalid, it shall not effect any of the remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases of this ordinance. Section 40. Repealer All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed. Section 41. Effective Date This ordinance shall become effective upon passage by the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen of the City of Acworth. City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 221 11/18/21   TREE PROTECTION AND LANDSCAPING A. Intent and Purpose The purpose of these standards is to facilitate the preservation and/or replacement of trees as part of the land development process within the municipal boundaries of the City of Acworth. Benefits derived from tree protection and replanting include: improved control of soil erosion, moderation of storm water runoff and improved water quality, dust filtration, shading, cooling, enhanced habitat for desirable wildlife, reduction of noise and glare, climate moderation, increased property values and aesthetic/scenic amenities. B. Applicability These regulations shall apply to all real property in the City now and in the future and to all property on which renovations to an existing building are greater than 51 percent of the building’s appraised value as shown on the current tax records. In accordance with the Subdivision platting procedures, all plats (preliminary and final) and subdivision improvement plans must contain a tree protection plan which meets the standards set forth in this section. Exempt from these standards are: 1. Any singular residential lot occupied by not more than one dwelling structure containing (in aggregate) not more than two dwelling units. 2. The plantings of public and private plant nurseries, tree farms or botanical gardens which are for sale to the general public. 3. Any property undergoing renovation or for which an application for a building permit for renovation has been submitted to the City prior to the adoption of this ordinance. 4. Any property within the Central Business District. C. Definitions 1. Buildable Area - The portion of a lot which is not located within any minimum required yard, landscape strip/area, or buffer; that portion of a lot wherein a building may be located. 2. Buffer - A natural undisturbed portion of a lot which is set aside to achieve a visual and noise barrier between land uses. A buffer is achieved with natural vegetation, except for approved access and utility crossings, and must be replanted when sparsely vegetated subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator. 3. Caliper - American Association of Nurseryman standard for trunk measurement of nursery stock. Caliper of the trunk shall be taken 6 inch above the ground for up to and including 4 inch caliper size, and 12 inches above the ground for larger sizes. 4. Crown Dripline - The vertical line extending from the outer surface of a tree’s branch tips down to the ground containing the tree’s critical root zone (see Figure A). 5. DBH - Diameter-at-breast-height is a standard measure of tree size and is a tree trunk diameter measured 4 ½ feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below 4 ½ feet, then the trunk is measured at the point directly beneath the split. 6. EDF - Existing Density Factor (EDF) is the density of existing trees to be preserved on a site. The EDF is calculated by converting the diameter of individual trees to density factor units. 7. Land Disturbance Permit - An official authorization issued by the Department of Public Works, allowing defoliation or alteration of the site, or the commencement of any land disturbing activities. 8. Protected Zone - All lands that fall outside the buildable area of a parcel, all areas of a parcel required to remain in green space, and/or all areas required as landscaping strips and/or buffers according to provisions of the City of Acworth Tree Protection Ordinance. 9. RDF - Replacement Density Factor (RDF) is the density of new trees necessary to meet the minimum Site Density Factor. 10. Re-vegetation - The replacement of trees or landscape plant materials into the minimum required landscape areas. 11. SDF - Site Density Factor (SDF) is the minimum tree density required to be maintained on a  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 222 11/18/21   developed site. 12. Specimen Tree - Any tree which has been determined to be of a high value because of its species, size, age, or other arboreal criteria [see Subsection (D)(4)(d)]. 13. Tree - Any self-supporting woody plant, usually having a single woody trunk and a potential DBH of at least two inches. 14. Tree Density Factor - A unit of measurement used to prescribe and calculate required tree coverage on a site. Unit measurements are based upon tree size and are not equal to individual tree counts. D. Tree Preservation and Replacement A tree protection and landscaping plan shall be submitted with all other permit drawings as part of the land disturbance permit process on any non-exempt parcel of land. Land disturbing activity includes any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land, excluding agricultural practices. The intent of these standards is to provide the necessary information to facilitate development project design, plan review, and enforcement processes in order that the provisions of the ordinance are administered in the most effective manner. In general, it shall be required that a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of existing trees, exclusive of acreage contained within any street right-of-way, setback, stream, or wetland buffers, shall be retained after development in all zoning districts, as identified and defined in this Ordinance. In determining the number of existing trees to be retained, counts of individual trees shall be utilized. However, upon approval of the Zoning Administrator, a calculated percentage of tree canopy coverage (based on average trees per acre) may be used instead. All cleared or disturbed areas shall be planted with trees of suitable species and to densities specified in this section of the Zoning Ordinance. 1. No land disturbance permit shall be issued for projects/lots until the landscaping plan has been reviewed and approved by the Zoning Administrator. All tree protection measures shall be installed prior to land disturbance and no land disturbance permit shall be issued for full site development without it being determined that the proposed development is in compliance with the provisions of these regulations. For each development, the Zoning Administrator, or other City designee, shall visit the development site, prior to issuance of any clearing permits. The tree preservation plan may either be a separate drawing or part of the overall landscape plan and shall include the following information: a) The name of the project b) The name of the owner and/or developer, including 24 hour contact c) The location of proposed building(s) and corresponding dimensions d) Spatial limits of land disturbance, clearing, grading and trenching e) All required undisturbed buffers, landscape strips and parking islands f) The location of all specimen trees or stands of specimen trees g) The location of all hardwood trees with a DBH > 4” and softwoods with a DBH > 10” h) Areas of tree protection and re-vegetation and all relevant tree density calculations i) The specific name and location of all materials to be planted or maintained on the site j) Procedures and schedules for the implementation, installation and maintenance of tree protection measures including, but not limited to, detail drawings of protective tree fencing (both active and passive) including signage and erosion control measures k) Planting and staking specifications 2. The destruction within any two (2) year period of more than twenty percent (20%) of the trees on any parcel of land shall be considered as timbering and regulated as such unless site development plans are submitted and approved as per all applicable City regulations. When site development plans are not submitted, a timbering permit must be obtained prior to any tree cutting, clearing or clearing and  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 223 11/18/21   grubbing. This standard shall apply to all properties which are not zoned exclusively for single family use and to all properties over two acres in size irrelevant of zoning. Such permits shall be in accordance with current land disturbance permit plan review procedures and shall meet the following standards: a) The exterior boundary of the site shall have an undisturbed 50 foot buffer area. This buffer area shall remain undisturbed except for improved perpendicular access points, which may be no wider than 24 feet. Sites over 2 acres in size must retain a minimum of 50% of those hardwood trees with a DBH greater than 6 inches and 50% of those softwood trees with a DBH greater than 12 inches (inclusive of the required buffer). b) Submitted plans shall include the following information: 1) Owner’s name and address 2) Closed property boundary showing bearing and distances of all property lines 3) Limits of land disturbance activity 4) 24 hour emergency contact name and phone number 5) Location of and detail for the truck exit (crushed stone pad) 6) Delineation and labeling of all required buffer zones 7) Documentation of all existing hardwood trees with a DBH > 6” and all existing softwood trees with a DBH > 12” c) All timber harvesting activities shall be in accordance with the U.S. Clean Water Act, Section 404 and Recommended Best Management Practices for Forestry in Georgia. 3. In the event that any tree on any nonexempt parcel of land shall be determined to be in a hazardous or dangerous condition so as to endanger the public health, safety or welfare, the tree may be removed upon the written authorization of the Zoning Administrator. In the case of a specimen tree which is included as part of an approved tree preservation plan, the Zoning Administrator may consult with the City’s designated professional arborist. 4. The Site Density Factor (SDF) is the minimum tree density required to be maintained on a developed site based upon the total site area (see Table A). This density requirement must be achieved whether or not a site had trees prior to development. The required unit density may be achieved by counting existing trees to be preserved, planting new trees, or some combination of the two. TABLE A – MINIMUM TREE DENSITY CALCULATIONS  Total area of developed site (acres) Minimum density units provided (per acre) < 25 15 > 25 20  Existing Density Factor (EDF) is the density of existing trees to be preserved on a site. The EDF is calculated by converting the diameter of individual trees to density factor units using Table B (below). TABLE B – DENSITY CREDIT FOR EXISTING TREES  DBH (inches) Density Units (pine species) Density Units (hardwoods) 3-4” 0.2 0.3 5-8” 0.3 0.6 9-12” 0.4 0.9 13-16” 0.6 1.2  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 224 11/18/21   17-20” 0.8 1.9 21-24” 1.2 2.8 25-31” 2.0 4.5 32-45” 2.5 6.0 46+” 3 7.5  b) Replacement Density Factor (RDF) is the density of new trees to be planted on a site. Calculate the RDF by subtracting the EDF from the SDF. The density factor credit for each caliper size of replacement (new) trees is shown in Table C. Any number or combination of transplantable size trees can be used so long as their total density factor units will equal or exceed the RDF. TABLE C – DENSITY CREDIT FOR PLANTED TREES  DBH Density Units 1” or 7 gallon 0.05 2” 0.3 3” 0.5 4-5” 0.8 6-7” 1.2 8-9” 1.5 10+” 2.0  c) For additions to existing projects, the tree density requirements are calculated as noted above for only those areas in which new land disturbance is taking place. Ex: Sample Tree Density Calculation (1) A 2.2 acre site has a Site Density Factor (SDF) of 2.2 x 15 = 33 (2) The Existing Density Factor (EDF) of trees to be preserved is calculated by converting the diameter of individual trees slated for preservation to density factor units as follows (all existing trees are assumed to be hardwoods): DBH # of trees unit value Totals 24” 2 x 2.8 = 5.6 18” 8 x 1.9 = 15.2 10” 10 x 0.9 = 9.0  Total EDF 29.8 (3) Replacement Density Factor (RDF) calculates the minimum density of new trees to be planted by subtracting the EDF from the SDF: RDF = 44 - 29.8 = 14.2 units required  (4) Table B is used to determine the RDF as follows: DBH # of trees unit value Totals 2” 20 x 0.3 = 6.0 4” 8 x 0.8 = 6.4 6” 3 x 1.2 = 3.6  Total RDF 16.0 EDF (29.8) + RDF (16.0) > SDF (45.8) therefore DENSITY SATISFIED  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 225 11/18/21   d) Specimen trees warrant special consideration and encouragement for preservation. In order to encourage the preservation of specimen trees and the incorporation of these trees into the design of projects, additional density credit will be given for specimen trees which are successfully saved by a design feature specifically designated for such purpose [subsections (I)(3) and (I)(4)]. Credit for any specimen tree thus saved shall be calculated at twice the assigned unit value shown in Table E.  If a specimen tree is to be removed, a plan or written documentation indicating the reason for the removal must be submitted to the Administrator. Specimen trees must be replaced by species with potentials for comparable size and quality based on the unit value of the tree (for example, a 30” hardwood specimen tree worth 4.5 units per Table B shall be replaced with 4.5 units worth of comparable species trees). Any specimen tree which is removed without the appropriate review and approval of the Administrator must be replaced by trees with a total density equal to one and one half (1 ½) times the unit value of the tree removed. Size alone will determine whether a tree was of specimen quality if the tree is removed without approval. The following criteria are used by the Zoning Administrator and the appointed City Arborist to identify specimen trees. Both size and condition criteria must be met for a tree to qualify. Size: • Large hardwoods: 18-inch diameter or larger • Large softwoods: 24-inch diameter or larger • Understory trees: 9-inch diameter or larger  Condition: • Life expectancy of greater than 15 years • Relatively sound and solid trunk with no extensive decay • No more than one major and several minor dead limbs (hardwoods only) • No major insect or pathological problem  E. Methods of Tree Protection 1. The protective zone for designated tree save areas shall include no less than the total area beneath the tree(s) canopy, as defined by the farthest canopy dripline of the tree(s). 2. Construction site activities such as material storage, concrete washout, burnhole placement, etc., may not encroach into designated tree protective zones. 3. No disturbance shall occur within the protective zone of specimen trees or stands of trees without prior approval by the Zoning Administrator. 4. The use of tree save islands and stands is encouraged over the protection of individual (non- specimen) trees scattered throughout a site. This will facilitate ease in overall site organization, increase the effectiveness of protection measures and prevent pathology. 5. Layout of the project site utility and grading plans should accommodate the required tree protective zones. Utilities must be placed between tree protective zones or incorporate those techniques described in subsections (I)(3) and (I)(4). F. Protective Barriers 1. Prior to any land disturbance, active protective fencing shall be installed so that it surrounds the critical root zones of all protected tree zones. 2. Active protective tree fences must be at least 4 feet high and may be either a wood and post construction or orange polyethylene laminar safety fencing. 3. All tree protection zones should be designated as such with “tree save area” signs posted visibly on  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 226 11/18/21   all sides of the fenced area. These signs are intended to inform subcontractors of the tree protection process. Signs requesting subcontractor cooperation and compliance with tree protection standards are recommended for site entrances although the developer shall be held responsible for any violations found. 4. All specimen trees or stands of trees, or otherwise designated tree protective zones must be protected from the sedimentation of erosion control. Silt screening must be placed along the outer uphill edge of tree protective zones at the land disturbance interface and shall be backed by twelve (12) gauge two (2) inch x four (4) inch wire mesh fencing in areas of steep slope. 5. All erosion control must comply with the City’s Soil Erosion Control ordinance. All tree fencing and erosion control barriers must be installed prior to and maintained throughout the land disturbance process and building construction and may not be removed until landscaping is installed. G. Vehicle Use Areas 1. Interior landscaping: Interior landscaping of at-grade parking lots shall contain planter islands located so as to relieve the expanse of parking, provide shading and channel water runoff. A maximum of 12 parking spaces in a row shall be permitted without a planter island. In addition, planter islands shall be placed at the ends of all parking bays. Planter islands shall have a minimum of 125 square feet in area and shall contain at least one hardwood overstory shade tree having at installation a minimum DBH of 3 inches and 10 feet in height for each row of parking. If a double row of parking (spaces facing each other) is utilized, a single planter island shall be provided at each end of the rows, each planted with two trees. This requirement may be waived in those instances in which facing parking rows are separated by a continuous island at least five feet in width containing at least one tree every fifteen feet. The remaining area shall be landscaped with appropriate materials. 2. Each area of the site which abuts public right-of-way (or improved accessways providing access to the interior of a development) must provide a planted border not less than 10 feet in width parallel to right-of-way lines (5 feet minimum for accessways). These planted border areas must have at least one tree having a minimum DBH of 2 inches for each 20 lineal feet of border area with a minimum of 2 trees if the strip is greater than 25 feet in length. Pine species are excluded from parking islands and along right-of-ways/accessways. The remainder of the planted area shall be landscaped with appropriate materials. 3. Accessways: Landscaped border areas may be interrupted to provide perpendicular vehicular and/or pedestrian ingress and egress, maximum 24 feet wide. 4. Encroachment: Landscaped areas shall require protection from vehicular encroachment. Car stops shall be located so as to prevent damage to any trees, fences, shrubs or landscaping by automobiles. H. Encroachment Most trees can tolerate only a small percentage of critical root zone loss. If encroachment is anticipated within the critical root zones of specimen trees, stands of trees, or otherwise designated protected tree zones, the following preventative measures shall be employed: 1. Clearing activities: Roots often fuse and tangle among trees. The removal of trees adjacent to tree save areas can cause inadvertent damage to the protected trees. Wherever possible, it is advisable to cut minimum 2 foot deep trenches (e.g. with a ditch-witch) along the limits of land disturbance, so as to cut, rather than tear, roots. Trenching may be required for the protection of specimen trees. 2. Soil compaction: Where compaction might occur due to traffic or materials storage, the tree protective zone must first be mulched with a minimum four inch layer of processed pine bark or wood chips, or a six inch layer of pine straw. 3. Trenching: The installation of utilities through a protective zone should occur by way of tunneling rather than trenching. 4. Grade changes: Moderate fill can be tolerated within a tree’s critical root zone with the prior installation of an aeration system. A decrease in grade is best accomplished through the use of  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 227 11/18/21   retaining walls or terracing. 5. When irreparable damage has occurred to trees within the tree protective zones, the trees must be removed and replaced with new trees of comparable size. I. Remediation Remedial site reclamation and tree care procedures shall be implemented when encroachment within protective zones has caused damage to either the tree or the trees’ growing site and the damage is reparable. If encroachment is anticipated, these horticultural practices should be employed as preemptive measures to improve tree survival. 1. Once a tree has been damaged, it is advisable to delay pruning until the deadwood becomes evident (1-3 years). Pruning for deadwood removal is then recommended. The removal of live plant tissue from a damaged tree can accelerate decline. Pruning of root severed trees may reduce the possibility of windthrow. Trees which have not been affected by construction activities can be pruned for maintenance of the tree’s health, appearance and safety. 2. Fertilizer applications will enhance the vigor of trees stressed by site disturbances, thereby promoting root development. 3. A tree’s adequate root development, and ultimately its chances for survival, is improved with reclamation of the growing site. Whenever possible, the soil should be brought back to its natural grade. Compacted soils within the critical root zones of trees should be aerated. The air exchange, nutrient, and water holding capacities of soils can be improved with soil amendments. A 4 to 6 inch layer of mulch material, such as pine bark or wood chips, spread within the critical root zones of trees on construction sites, is extremely beneficial. 4. The availability of water to trees on construction sites should be monitored. If grade changes or excessive rain cause the accumulation of water near trees, steps must be taken to improve drainage. Conversely, if grade changes or prolonged periods without rain cause a drought situation, then irrigation may be necessary. J. Re-Vegetation 1. The replacement of trees must occur if the EDF does not meet the calculated SDF. The quantity of replacement trees must be sufficient so as to produce a total site-tree density factor which meets the requirements established in subsection (D)(4). (Note: the terms ‘unit’ and ‘tree’ are NOT interchangeable). 2. Species selected for replacement must be quality specimens and ecologically compatible with the site. Table D lists those species of trees generally acceptable for credit in density calculations based upon use or need. The Zoning Administrator has information on trees and may accept alternatives to those listed in Table D. Pine species may only be planted in buffer or screening areas to the rear of the principal use and are specifically excluded from parking islands and along right-of-ways. Re- vegetation plans that consist of more than ten (10) new trees shall incorporate at least three (3) separate tree species whereby no single tree species accounts for more than 50% of all newly planted trees. In any case, no more than 50% of all new trees may be evergreen or pine species, regardless of their planting location. 3. Any portion of the subject property which is within a utility power easement is required to meet the height standards of the controlling entity. These areas may be required by the City to have additional vegetation installed to compensate for these restrictions, subject to approval from the Zoning Administrator. 4. All trees and landscaping shall be installed in a sound workmanlike manner and according to accepted planting procedures with quality materials as provided in literature from the Georgia Forestry Commission or the Georgia Extension Service. All landscaping shall be completed within 6 months after the date of the issuance of the certificate of occupancy, however any required fencing shall be installed prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy. Should the landscaping not be completed in this period, it shall be deemed a violation of this section. The Zoning Administrator  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 228 11/18/21   shall have the authority to grant a two month temporary waiver to the planting requirement due to inclement weather, natural disasters or other such unforeseen instances. This waiver shall only be given upon written request from the owner/ applicant of the development project. The request shall state the reason(s) for the planting delay, and shall list the timeline for the plantings. 5. The owner, occupant, tenant or agent, shall be jointly responsible for the maintenance of all landscaping. Landscaping shall be maintained in a good condition so as to present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance at least equal to the original installation. Any dead vegetation and landscaping material or any damaged nonliving landscaping materials shall be promptly replaced. A maintenance bond or letter of credit shall be posted prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. This bond or letter of credit shall be derived through the average of three written estimates provided by the applicant from nurseries including the plant materials, labor and any other costs associated with the plantings. The bond or letter of credit shall be released by the City one year after the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy. 6. In the event that the minimum tree density cannot be met on a parcel, and after all other measures of planting have been exhausted, two (2) alternates, at the discretion of the Administrator, are available for compensation and issuance of approval. An allocation for alternate compliance shall not exceed more that fifty percent (50%) of the tree density for a specific plan. a) Tree Bank: It shall be at the discretion of the Administrator to designate site(s) other than said parcel for tree bank planting in order to achieve minimum density requirements. b) Tree Replacement Fund: It shall be at the discretion of the Administrator to allow contributions to the City of Acworth Tree Replacement Fund for planting of over-story trees at designated site(s) within the City of Acworth. Contributions shall be calculated as to reflect the current replacement cost (including labor) of the total number of trees that are required but are not planted. This amount shall be derived through an average of three written estimates provided by the applicant from nurseries including the plant materials, labor and any other costs associated with the plantings. K. General Landscaping Requirements Beyond tree protection and re-vegetation, the extent of permissible impervious surfaces and required landscaping are regulated through the standards of the controlling zoning district. Landscaping may include grass, hedges and trees as well as natural features. All site plans submitted for new construction or renovations to an existing building in which the construction costs exceed 51 percent of the building’s appraised value as shown on the current tax records (subject to those exemptions specified in Subsection B) must contain a separate landscape plan which includes the following information:  1. The name of the project 2. The name of the owner and/or developer 3. The location of proposed building(s) and corresponding dimensions 4. Spatial limits of land disturbance, clearing, grading and trenching 5. All required undisturbed buffers, landscape strips and parking islands 6. The location and listing of all specimen trees or stands of specimen trees 7. Areas of tree protection and re-vegetation and all relevant tree density calculations 8. The specific name and location of all materials to be planted or maintained on the site 9. Procedures and schedules for the implementation, installation and maintenance of tree  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 229 11/18/21   protection measures including, but not limited to, detail drawings of protective tree fencing (both active and passive) including signage and erosion control measures 10. Planting and staking specifications 11. The percentage of the total lot containing impervious surfaces 12. The percentage of the total lot which shall remain undisturbed 13. The percentage of the total lot devoted to landscaping  L. Acceptable Tree Species Table D. denotes those species of trees which may be incorporated for full credit towards the tree replacement requirements of paragraph (D). Other trees may be approved on a case by case basis provided they are large growing and ecologically compatible with the site. Re-vegetation plans containing at least ten new trees must incorporate at least three separate tree species with no single tree species accounting for more than 50% of all newly planted trees. Pine trees can be utilized for screening and buffer areas only. All planting and replanting plans are subject to approval through the Zoning Administrator. TABLE “D” ON NEXT PAGE  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 230 11/18/21   TABLE D – TREE SPECIES SELECTION LIST  Use Common Name Scientific Name General Maples Acer species American Hornbeam, Blue Beech Carpinus caroliniana Hickories Carya species Pecan Carva illinoinesis Hackberry Celtis occidentalis White Mulberry Morus alba American Yellowwood Cladrastis lutea Leyland Cypress Cupressocyparis leylandii American Beech Fagus gradifolia White Ash Fraxinus americana Green Ash Fraxinus pennsylvanica Ginkgo Ginkgo biloba Sweetgum Liquidambar styraciflua Tulip Poplar Liriodendron tulipifera Southern Magnolia Magnolia grandiflora Oaks, except Live Oaks Ouercus species Blackgum, Black Tupelo Nyssa sylvatica Black locust Robinia pseudoacacia Sycamore Platanus occidentalis Bald Cypress Taxodium distichum Chinese Elm Ulmus parvifolia Southern Catalpa Catalpa bignonioides Buffer/Screening Leyland Cypress Cupressocyparis leylandii Shortleaf Pine Pinus echinata Loblolly Pine Pinus taeda Japanese Evergreen Oak Quercus acuta Carolina Cherry-Laurel Prunus caroliniana American Holly Ilex opaca Devilwood Osmanthus americanus Yellow Grove bamboo Phyllostachys aureosulcata Washington Hawthorn Crataegus phaenopyrum Eastern Red Cedar Juniperus virginiana Southern Magnolia Magnolia grandiflora Deodar Cedar Cedrus deodara Laurel Oak Quercus laurifolia Power Easements Crape Myrtle (does not count for unit value) Lagerstroemia indica Japanese Maple Acer palmatum Devilwood Osmanthus americanus Nellie Stevens Holly Ilex ‘Nellie R. Stevens’ Flowering Dogwood Cornus florida Smoketree Cotinus coggyria Loquat Eriobotrya japonica  City of Acworth Zoning Ordinance and Unified Development Code Ordinance 2003-16 Amended: Ord- 2003-34; 2004-02; 2004-16; 2004-21; 2004-32; 2004-39; 2005-05; 2005-11; 2005-12; 2005-16; 2005-24; 2005-28; 2005-41; 2006-06; 2006-25; 2006-32; 2007-04; 2007-18; 2008-16; 2008-25; 2008-27; 2009-06; 2010-04; 2011-23; 2012-27; 2015-05; 2015-07; 2015-14; 2016-11; 2016-40; 2016-41; 2017-03; 2017-04; 2017-14; 2017-15; 2017-16; 2018-20; 2019-12; 2019-13; 2019-14; 2021-28 231 11/18/21   Water Retention Areas River Birch Betula nigra Bald Cypress Taxodium distichum White Mulberry Morus alba  M. Enforcement, Violations and Penalties Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator. In some cases, the City shall employ the expertise of a professional arborist to assist the Zoning Administrator. An arborist shall assist the City when: A) required as part of specific zoning stipulation and/or B) when an applicant has specifically identified significant sized specimen trees to save (Such as listed in Section D (4) d)). The arborist will become involved in the project over three time periods: 1) prior to any land disturbance the arborist would review the tree preservation plans, inspect the health of the proposed trees to save, and inspect the installed tree-save measures on-site, 2) During the construction of the project the arborist would work with the Zoning Administrator to inspect that the proper tree-save fencing and other measures are being maintained, 3) After the site is completed the arborist would make a final inspection of the saved trees. If, after inspection of a project by the administrator or designee, the plant materials installed on the site do not comply with the approved plan, such deficiencies shall be noted in writing. If the administrator deems the deviations from the approved plan acceptable, they will so note, and the owner, occupant, tenant, and/or representative will be required to submit promptly a revised plan showing the actual plantings. This revised plan will be placed on file at the office of the Zoning Administrator. If, after inspection, the administrator or his/her designee determines the site does not comply with the approved plan and further determines it to be unacceptable, the owner developer, occupant, tenant and/or respective agent shall be notified in writing by the Zoning Administrator of said violations and given 30 days in which to correct all violations. Failure to make such corrections to plans not in accordance with the approved plan shall be a violation of this section and shall be punishable by a maximum fine or other punishment such as imprisonment, as set by the Municipal Court Judge. N. Appeal The Board of Aldermen shall have the authority to consider and act upon any application submitted for adjustment of standards provided herein. SECTION 10 Title 	SECTION 11 Applicability 	SECTION 12 Planning Goals and Purpose 	SECTION 13 Severability 	SECTION 14 Effective Date 	SECTION 15 Repeal of conflicting ordinances and validity of prior approvals and actions 	SECTION 16 Development Projects Under Construction 	ARTICLE II ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS 	SECTION 20 Official Zoning Map 	SECTION 21 Replacement of Official Zoning Map 	21.1 District Designations 	TABLE A – CITY OF ACWORTH ZONING DISTRICTS 	ARTICLE III APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS 	SECTION 30 Rules Governing Interpretation 	SECTION 31 Uniformity and Compliance 	SECTION 32 Compliance with District Regulations 	SECTION 33 Lots Reduced Below Requirements 	SECTION 34 Annexed Territory 	SECTION 35 Special Land Use Permit Necessary 	ARTICLE IV NONCONFORMING USES 	SECTION 40 Intent 	SECTION 41 Continuance of Nonconforming Use 	SECTION 42 Continuance of Building Occupied by Nonconforming Use 	SECTION 43 Exceptions 	ARTICLE V DISTRICT STANDARDS AND PERMITTED USES 	SECTION 50 District Standards 	50.1 R-1, Single Family Residential 	50.2 R-2, Single Family Residential 	50.3 R-3, Single Family Residential 	50.4 R-5, Mixed Single Family Residential (Note: This District is strictly in place for existing developments as shown on the most recently adopted Zoning Map. No new developments may be applied for under this category). 50.5 RC – Residential Conservation Planned Unit Development 	50.6 RM-6, Multi-Family Residential (6 units/acre) 	50.7 RM-8, Multi-Family Residential (8 units/acre) 	50.8 C-1, Neighborhood Retail Commercial 	50.9 C-2, Community Retail Commercial 	50.10 OIT, Office Institution Transitional 	50.11 LRO, Low Rise Office 	50.12 OP, Office Professional 	50.13 LI, Light Industrial 	50.14 HI, Heavy Industrial 	50.15 MU, Mixed Use District 	50.16 SLC, Senior Living Community 	50.17 RRX, Railroads and Railroad Crossings 	50.18 PPF, Public Parks and Facilities 	50.18 A/R-20, Single Family Residential 	50.20 A/R-30, North Single Family Residential 	50.21 A/R-40, Single Family Residential 	50.22 A/RR, Rural Residential 	50.23 A/R-80, Single Family Residential 	ARTICLE VI SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS 	SECTION 60 Sidewalk Requirements 	SECTION 61 Buildings 	61.1 Temporary buildings 	61.2 Requirements for moving a building 	SECTION 62 Fences and Walls 	SECTION 63 Buffers 	SECTION 64 Fire Safety Requirements 	SECTION 65 Outside Storage 	SECTION 66 Bulk Sanitation Containers, Portable Storage Units, Temporary Bulk Waste Containers, Donation Bins and Recycling Containers 	SECTION 67 Lots 	67.1 Erection of more than one principal structure on a lot 	67.2 Projections into yards 	67.3 Substandard lots of record 	67.4 Corner lots 	67.5 Double frontage lots 	SECTION 68 Disabled Vehicle Lots 	68.1 PURPOSE 	68.2 INTENT: 	68.3 DEFINITION 	68.4 STANDARDS 	68.5 EXCEPTIONS 	68.6. REVIEW BY STAFF 	68.7. TIMEFRAME 	68.8. VIOLATION 	SECTION 69 Site Plan Approval and General Standards 	69.2 Density calculations 	69.3 Height requirements exceptions 	69.4 General Development Standards 	A. Commercial and Industrial Development Standards (including : C-1, C-2, OIT, LRO, OP, LI, HI, MU): 	B. Residential Development Standards (including R-1, R-2, R-3, R-5, RM-6, RM-8, RC, SLC, MU): 	C. Mixed Use Development Standards: 	ARTICLE VII SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS 	SECTION 70 Special Land Use Permits 	TABLE B. SPECIAL LAND USE PERMITS 	SECTION 71 Community Residences 	SECTION 73 Extended Stay Facilities 	SECTION 74 Home Occupations 	SECTION 75 Adult Entertainment 	SECTION 76 Telecommunication Towers and Infrastructure 	TABLE C. MAXIMUM TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER HEIGHTS 	ARTICLE VIII TRAFFIC AND PARKING STANDARDS 	SECTION 80 Purpose 	SECTION 81 Street Access and Curb Cuts 	SECTION 82 Street Improvements 	SECTION 83 Corner Visibility Clearance 	SECTION 84 Private Streets 	SECTION 85 Parking Spaces Required 	TABLE J. OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS 	Notes: 	SECTION 86 Required Surface Parking Standards 	SECTION 87 Overflow Parking Standards 	SECTION 88 Parking in Residential Districts 	SECTION 89 Off-Street Loading Requirements 	TABLE K. OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS 	ARTICLE IX ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT 	SECTION 90 Administration Authority 	SECTION 91 Administrative Variances 	SECTION 92 Review of Development permit Applications 	SECTION 93 Schedule of Fees, Charges and Expenses 	SECTION 94 Building Inspector 	SECTION 95 Appeals from Decisions of the Administrator 	SECTION 96 Remedies 	SECTION 97 Penalties for Violation 	SECTION 98 Certificate of Occupancy 	ARTICLE X APPEALS 	SECTION 100 General Requirements 	SECTION 101 Procedures 	SECTION 102 Public Hearings 	SECTION 103 Assistance by Staff 	ARTICLE XI VARIANCES AND SPECIAL LAND USE PERMITS 	SECTION 110 General Requirements 	SECTION 111 Procedures 	SECTION 112 Public Hearings 	SECTION 113 Assistance by Staff 	ARTICLE XII AMENDMENTS 	SECTION 120 Generally 	SECTION 121 Application for Map Amendments 	SECTION 122 Assistance by Staff 	SECTION 123 Planning Commission Action 	SECTION 124 Board of Aldermen Action 	SECTION 125 Public Notification 	SECTION 126 Home Rule Annexation 	SECTION 127 Legislative annexation 	ARTICLE XII DEFINITIONS 	SECTION 130.1 Interpretation of Words 	SECTION 130.2 Definitions of Terms 	CITY OF ACWORTH SUBDIVISION AND DEVLEOPMENT REGULATIONS 	Section 1. Purpose and Intent 	Section 2. Conflicting Regulations 	Section 3. Approval by Mayor and Board of Aldermen Required 	Section 4. Issuance of Building Permit 	Section 5. Definitions 	Section 6. General Intent 	Section 7. Notice to Subdividers 	Section 8. Pre-application Procedures 	Section 9. Procedure for Conditional Approval of Preliminary Plat 	Section 10. Procedure for Approval of Final Plat 	Section 11. Combinations and Re-plats 	Section 12. Small Subdivisions 	Section 13. Boundary Line Revisions 	Section 14. Pre-Application Procedures 	Section 15. Plats and Data for Conditional Approval 	Section 16. Preliminary Plat 	Section 17. Other Preliminary Plans 	Section 18. Plats and Data for Final Approval 	Section 19. Examples of Certificates 	Section 20. Conformity 	Section 21. Street Design 	MINIMUM LOCAL ROADWAY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS* 	MINIMUM COMMERCIAL ROADWAY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS* 	Section 22. Alleys 	Section 23. Names 	Section 24. Blocks 	Section 25. Lots 	Section 26. Easements 	Section 27. Drainage and Inundation 	Section 28. Monuments 	Section 29. Street and Related Improvements 	Section 30. Sanitary Sewers 	Section 31. Storm Drainage 	Section 32. Water Supply System 	Section 33. Coordination of Installation 	Section 34. Experimental Subdivisions 	Section 35. Conditions 	Section 36. Conflict with Other Laws 	Section 37. Penalties for Transferring Lot in Unapproved Subdivisions 	Section 38. Final Subdivision Plat 	Section 39. Severability 	Section 40. Repealer 	Section 41. Effective Date 	TREE PROTECTION AND LANDSCAPING 	A. Intent and Purpose 	B. Applicability 	C. Definitions 	D. Tree Preservation and Replacement 	TABLE A – MINIMUM TREE DENSITY CALCULATIONS 	TABLE B – DENSITY CREDIT FOR EXISTING TREES 	TABLE C – DENSITY CREDIT FOR PLANTED TREES 	E. Methods of Tree Protection 	F. Protective Barriers 	G. Vehicle Use Areas 	H. Encroachment 	I. Remediation 	J. Re-Vegetation 	K. General Landscaping Requirements 	L. Acceptable Tree Species 	TABLE D – TREE SPECIES SELECTION LIST 	M. Enforcement, Violations and Penalties 	N. Appeal Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 1 of 137 Chapter 22 Sections: 22-0A ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL 22-1 Title. 22-2 Authority for enactment. ZONING* 22-3 Chapter contains recommended ordinance and maps. 22-4 Purpose. 22-5 Penalty; remedies. 22-6 Definitions. 22-7 Interpretation and application. 22-8 Zoning affects all land and buildings. 22-9 Every use must be upon a lot. 22-10 Only one principal building per lot. 22-11 Open space not to be encroached upon. 22-12 Required open space may not be used by another building. 22-13 Reduction of yards or lot area. 22-14 Encroachment on public rights-of-way. 22-15 Location of accessory buildings or uses on residential lots. 22-16 Accessory buildings or uses on nonresidential lots. 22-17 Recreation vehicle, travel trailer, or camper. 22-18 Portable structures. 22-19 Every lot shall abut a public street; exceptions. 22-20 Lots with multiple frontage. 22-21 Screening required. 22-22 Side and rear yards not required next to railroad. 22-23 Substandard lots of record. 22-24 Intersection visibility and corner setback. 22-25 Permitted modification of setback requirement. 22-26 Zoning to apply when lot is divided by district boundary line. 22-27 Height limitations of walls and fences. 22-28 Screening of service areas within one hundred feet of public street. 22-29 Required buffers in C-1, C-2, M, and M-1 districts. 22-30 Structures permitted above the height limit. 22-31 Permitted encroachment of yards and setbacks. 22-32 Modification of side yard requirements. 22-33 Uses prohibited. 22-34 Special building setbacks. 22-35 Swimming pools (semiprivate and commercial). 22-36 Swimming pool (residential). 22-37 Zoning of annexed areas. 22-38 Mechanically emptied refuse containers. 22-39 Standards for satellite receiving dish antennae. 22-40 Bed and breakfast homestay operation. 22-41 Home occupations. 22-42 Group development projects. 22-43 Standards for Accessory Dwelling Unit. NOTICE: This Thomasville Municipal Code Chapter has been amended. To view the most recent copy(ies) of adopted text amendment legislation, and its effective date, CLICK HERE. Please note, by clicking the link, you will be leaving the City of Thomasville’s website. https://library.municode.com/GA/thomasville/munidocs/munidocs?nodeId=34333dbc0657b Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 2 of 137  22-44 Standards for Community Gardens. 22-45 22-45—59. Reserved. 22-60A ARTICLE II. NONCONFORMANCES 22-61 Nonconforming lots. 22-62 Nonconforming open uses of land. 22-63 Nonconforming uses of structures. 22-64 Reconstruction of nonconforming structures. 22-65 Changes in zoning. 22-66 22-66--22-80. Reserved. 22-80A ARTICLE III. DISTRICTS 22-81 Establishment of districts. 22-82 Zoning map. 22-83 Interpretation of district boundaries, zoning map and references. 22-84 Historic district; conditional uses. 22-85 Historic district boundaries. 22-86 Thomasville Historic Building and Site Survey. 22-87 22-87--22-105. Reserved. 22-105A ARTICLE IV. PERMITTED USES 22-106 Schedule of permitted uses. 22-107 22-107--22-130. Reserved. 22-130A ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATION 22-131 Zoning administrator appointed; duties. 22-132 Reserved. 22-133 Reserved. 22-134 Sign permits. 22-135 22-135--22-150. Reserved. 22-150A ARTICLE VI. AMENDMENTS AND REZONING 22-151 Alternative methods; preliminary review required. 22-152 Application for amendment. 22-153 Signature of applicant required. 22-154 Application for text amendment. 22-155 Applications for map amendment. 22-156 Public hearing and notification. 22-157 Notice to interested parties. 22-158 Referral to planning commission. 22-159 Rezoning policies and procedures. 22-160 Policies and procedures for city planning commission initiated rezoning activities. 22-161 Policies and procedures for citizen/property owner initiated rezoning activities. 22-162 22-162--22-180. Reserved. 22-180A ARTICLE VII. DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 22-180D DIVISION 1. GENERALLY 22-181 Specifications. 22-182 Architectural standards for commercial buildings. 22-183 Procedural requirements for approval of permit. 22-184 Appeals and variance requests. 22-185 DIVISION 1-A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT - Purpose and Intent 22 -186 Definitions. 22-187 Permitted Locations and Uses. 22-188 Requirements. 22-189 General Considerations for Land Use Mix and Design. 22-190 Application Requirements. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 3 of 137  22-191 Approval Procedures. 22-192 Post Approval Requirements. 22-193 22-193 - 22-205 Reserved 22-205D DIVISION 2. R-TH TOWNHOUSE DISTRICTS 22-206 Permitted uses. 22-207 Density standards. 22-208 Common areas. 22-209 Minimum design and development criteria. 22-210 Procedure for rezoning. 22-211 Review criteria. 22-212 Identification on official zoning map. 22-213 22-213--22-230. Reserved. 22-230D DIVISION 3. R-CD CLUSTER HOUSING 22-231 Permitted uses. 22-232 Density standards. 22-233 Common areas. 22-234 Minimum design and development criteria. 22-235 Procedure for rezoning. 22-236 Review criteria. 22-237 Identification on official zoning map. 22-238 DIVISION 4. TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD DISTRICT 22-239 Purpose; design guidelines adopted. 22-240 Criteria for TND applications; program for unified control; legal instrument for permanent protection of common spaces. 22-241 Phasing of projects. 22-242 Permitted uses; additional accessory uses authorized; prohibited uses. 22-243 Property development standards. 22-244 Site development standards. 22-245 Public improvement standards. 22-246 Procedures for rezoning. 22-247 Procedures for review and approval of development. 22-248 Procedures for appeals. 22-249 Conditional Commercial uses. 22-250 Parking requirements. 22-251 Identification on official zoning map. 22-252-254 Reserved. 22-255A ARTICLE VIII. MANUFACTURED HOUSING SUBDIVISIONS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS* 22-256 Purpose of the MH zone (one-family manufactured housing residential district). 22-257 Regulations and uses applicable to the MH zone. 22-258 Recreation vehicle parks. 22-259 General requirements for recreation vehicle park. 22-260 Improvements required for recreation vehicle park. 22-261 22-261--22-280. Reserved. 22-280A ARTICLE IX. OFF-STREET PARKING AND SERVICE REQUIREMENTS 22-281 Scope. 22-282 Parking spaces may not be reduced. 22-283 Drainage, construction, and maintenance. 22-284 Separation from walkways, sidewalks and streets. 22-285 Parking area design. 22-286 Joint parking facilities. 22-287 Pavement markings and signs. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 4 of 137  22-288 Number of parking spaces. 22-289 Off-street parking requirements. 22-290 Location of parking space for other land uses. 22-291 Off-street parking standards. 22-292 Off-street loading requirements. 22-293 Minimum number of loading spaces required. 22-294 Rules and regulations for protection of city rights-of-way. 22-295 22-295--22-310. Reserved. 22-310A ARTICLE X. (Reserved) 22-311 22-311--22-355. Reserved. 22-355A ARTICLE XI. CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY 22-356 Required. 22-357 Issuance. 22-358 Denial. 22-359 22-359--22-375. Reserved. 22-375A ARTICLE XII. THOMASVILLE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION* 22-376 Created. 22-377 Composition; appointment of members. 22-378 Terms, removal and compensation of members; vacancies. 22-379 Officers; rules of procedure; meetings and records to be public. 22-380 Reserved. 22-381 Employees and staff; contracts; expenditures. 22-382 Public hearing on conditional uses. 22-383 22-383--22-400. Reserved. 22-400A ARTICLE XIII. THOMASVILLE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS 22-401 Created. 22-402 Membership and appointments. 22-403 Term of office. 22-404 Compensation. 22-405 Rules and procedures. 22-406 Administrative assistance. 22-407 Who may appeal. 22-408 Legal proceedings stayed. 22-409 Presentation of evidence. 22-410 Extent of board of appeals' power. 22-411 Notice of hearing. 22-412 Newspaper notice; appearances; time limit. 22-413 Appeals from decisions of the zoning administrator. 22-414 Request for a variance. 22-415 Forms for appeal; fee. 22-416 22-416 - 22-428 RESERVED 22-429 A ARTICLE XIV ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD 22-430 Membership and appointments. 22-431 Terms of office. 22-432 Compensation. 22-433 Rules and procedures. 22-434 Administrative assistance. 22-435 Who may appeal or seek a variance. 22-436 Legal proceedings stayed. 22-437 Presentation of evidence. 22-438 Extent of Board's power. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 5 of 137  22-439 Notice of hearing. 22-440 Appeals from decisions of the Planning Department. 22-441 Conditions under which variances may be granted. 22-442 Form for appeal or variance request; fee. 22-443 Conflict with other ordinances and laws. 22-444 Appeals. 22-445 22-445—22-497. Reserved 22-498 ARTICLE XV OVERLAY DISTRICTS 22-499 DIVISION I. VICTORIA PARK OVERLAY DISTRICT 22-500 Intent. 22-501 General to All Development. 22-502 Building Types. 22-503 Frontages. 22-504 Architecture. 22-505 Fences and Walls. 22-506 Parking. 22-507 Lighting. 22-508 Uses. 22-509 Administration 22-510 Definitions. *Cross references--Administration, Ch. 2; buildings, construction and related activities, Ch. 5; floodplain regulations, Ch. 8; historic preservation, Ch. 9; streets and sidewalks, Ch. 16; subdivisions, Ch. 17; taxation, revenue and miscellaneous business regulations, Ch. 18; trees and landscaping, Ch. 20. State law references--City's authority to adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 4; The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq. ; local government zoning powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-2; conflicts of interest in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq. ; effect of zoning laws on covenants running with the land, O.C.G.A. § 44-5-60. Section 22-0A ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL   Section 22-1 Title. This chapter shall be known as the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance of the City of Thomasville, Georgia. (Code 1958, § 24-1)   Section 22-2 Authority for enactment. The City Council enacts the ordinance from which this section derives under the exercise of the powers conferred upon it by Georgia Laws, Acts 1957, page 420 et seq. and the acts amendatory thereof, (O.C.G.A. §§ 69-1201 through 1231 inclusive as amended), which act became effective to the  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 6 of 137  City by an ordinance creating the Thomasville planning commission adopted by the City Council and a resolution creating the Thomasville planning commission adopted by the commissioners of roads and revenues of Thomas County, Georgia. (Code 1958, § 24-4; Ord. of 8-12-91, § II)   Section 22-3 Chapter contains recommended ordinance and maps. This chapter contains the full text of the recommended comprehensive zoning ordinance and plan and its accompanying maps as certified by the Thomasville Planning and Zoning Commission, referred to throughout this chapter as the Planning and Zoning Commission. No change in or departure from the maps so certified has been made except such changes or departures as have been first submitted for the review and recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and no changes in the maps or text of this chapter have been made except upon the approval of the Council of the City of Thomasville. The maps referred to in this section are on file in the administrative offices of the Planning Department where they are available for review. Such maps are by reference incorporated and made a part of this chapter. (22-3, Amended, 09/27/2004)   Section 22-4 Purpose. This city council expressly finds and determines that this comprehensive zoning chapter is adopted and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the city, its citizens, inhabitants, and occupants and is adopted and enacted in accordance with a comprehensive plan, and it is the intent, purpose and design of the city council by the adoption hereof to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; and this chapter and its provisions are adopted after careful and reasonable consideration of the character of each district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view to promoting desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods, protection of property against blight and depreciation, securing economy in governmental expenditures, conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land and other buildings and structures throughout the city. (Code 1958, § 24-3)   Section 22-5 Penalty; remedies. (a) Any person or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee, or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter may be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense, such fine to inure to the city. Each day of the existence of any violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (b) In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or land is used in violation of this chapter, the zoning administrator or any other appropriate authority, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the violation in the case of such building, structure, or land. (Code 1958, § 24-18.01)   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 7 of 137  Section 22-6 Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning: Accent Window means a window used on a facade that is different in size and shape from the Typical Window. Accessory building means a detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental to, customarily associated with, and related to the principal structure or use of the land, and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use. Accessory buildings shall include storage buildings, tool houses, party houses, bath houses (used in conjunction with swimming pools), tree houses and similar uses. Accessory building--side yard requirements. In the case of accessory buildings or structures located on a lot with a principal building, the side yard requirements of the yard in which the lot is located shall be considered as extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line. Accessory use means the use customarily incidental and accessory to the principal use of a building located upon the same building site as the accessory use. Adjoining property line (MH district) means the boundary line between a manufactured housing subdivision and property in another ownership and shall, for the purpose of these regulations, include utility rights-of-way but not street rights-of-way. Administrator zoning means the person, officer, or official and his authorized representative, whom the City Council has designated as its agent for the administration of these regulations. Alley means a public thoroughfare which ordinarily affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property and which is not more than twenty (20) feet wide. Assisted Living Facilities/Institutional (Group) Care means a building or part thereof housing more than 16 persons, on a 24-hour basis, who because of age, mental disability, or other reasons, live in a supervised residential environment that provides personal care service. This classification shall include, but not be limited to, the following: residential board and care facilities, assisted living facilities, half-way houses, group homes, congregate care facilities, social rehabilitation facilities, alcohol and drug centers, and convalescent facilities. Assisted Living Facilities/Personal Care means a building or part thereof housing a maximum of 16 persons, on a 24-hour basis, who because of age, mental disability, or other reasons, live in a supervised residential environment that provides personal care service. This classification shall include, but not be limited to, the following: residential board and care facilities, assisted living facilities, alcohol and drug abuse centers. The stated facilities shall conform and qualify for license under Georgia State law and meet the off-street parking requirements of the City of Thomasville zoning ordinance and shall be based on the number of residents residing and working in the facility. Automobile sales or storage yards or lots means an open premises used for the storage or sale of complete and operable automobiles. Automobile wrecking yard or automobile used parts lot means anywhere three (3) or more vehicles not in running condition, or the parts thereof, are stored in the open, or any building or structure used principally for wrecking or storage of automobiles not in running condition or automobile parts. Basement means a room or story partly underground, and having at least one-half of its height above the average level of the adjoining ground. Abasement shall be counted as a story if used for dwelling or business purposes. Bed and breakfast homestay means the limited use of a residential dwelling to provide overnight lodging utilizing not more than two (2) bedrooms within that dwelling for occupancy by not more than a total of four (4) transient persons per principal dwelling unit for compensation. Board of zoning appeals means the Thomasville Board of Zoning Appeals established by this chapter. Boarding or rooming house means a residential structure in which lodging is provided for compensation to one or more individuals who share with another person cooking, bathroom, or  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 8 of 137  other communal facilities within the residential structure. Building is any structure, except a mobile home, which has a roof and which is for the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind. Building height means the vertical distance of a building measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade along the front of the building to the highest point of the building. Cellar means a room or story having more than one-half of its height below the average level of the adjoining ground. A cellar shall not be counted as a story for purposes of height measured. Civic space means a building or complex of buildings that house cultural, recreational, athletic, convention, or entertainment facilities. Club or lodge, private means an incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political, recreational, or like activities, operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general public. Collector streets mean those streets which serve as feeders to a major street, as collectors of traffic from minor streets, and for circulation around a residential neighborhood. Commission means the Thomasville Planning and Zoning Commission. Common space means land within or related to a development, not individually owned, that is designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of the residents and their guests of the development and may include such complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate. Community Garden means a civic space, established as the primary use on an otherwise vacant lot, and available to nearby residents for small-scale cultivation of fruits, vegetables, plants, flowers, or herbs by multiple users. The land shall be served by a water supply sufficient to support the cultivation practices used on this site. Such land may include available public land. Conditional use means a use which within certain districts specified by this chapter is not permitted as a matter of right but may be permitted within these districts by the city council after the planning commission has (1) reviewed the proposed site plans for the use, its location within the community, its arrangement and design, its relationship to neighboring property and other conditions peculiar to the particular proposal which would determine its desirability or undesirability; (2) has found the proposal not to be contrary to the intent of this chapter; and (3) has recommended the use as specified after a public hearing. Condominium means a building or complex of multiple unit dwellings in which each property owner holds full title to a unit and an undivided interest in the common elements. A development consisting of subdivided lots for individual sale shall not be considered a condominium for the purposes of this code section. Corner lot means a lot which abuts on two (2) or more streets, and roads, at their intersection, or upon a curved street, provided that the two (2) sides of the lot, or the tangents to the curve of the street line at its starting points at or within the side lines of the lot, intersect to form an interior angle of not more than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees. County governing body means the Board of Commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia. Curb cut means the providing of ingress and egress between property and an abutting public street. Dead-end street means a street with no outlet at one (1) end. Development means all new improvements to an undeveloped property, including structures and parking areas; the division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels; any excavation, landfill, or land disturbance; and any new use of the land or extension of use of the land. Dwelling, multifamily means a building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for more than two (2) adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a common wall or common floor connecting it to at least one (1) other dwelling unit in the building. Dwelling, single-family means a detached building used and either designed or constructed for one (1) dwelling unit. Dwelling, two-family or duplex means a building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for two (2) adjoining dwelling units that are connected by a common wall and if two (2) story by a  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 9 of 137  common floor. Dwelling unit means an enclosure of one (1) or more rooms, including one (1) kitchen facility, designed or constructed as a unit for residential occupancy by one (1) family only. Expressway means a divided highway for through traffic with full or partial control of access. It contains two (2) lanes or more for traffic going in opposing directions and divided by a median strip, and so designed as to protect the opposing flows of traffic and thus increase the safety and practical capacity of the road for regional and inter-regional traffic. Facade means all elevations of a building which are visible from the public right-of-way. Family means one (1) or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from persons in their individual capacities occupying a boardinghouse, lodging house, hotel, motel or fraternity or sorority house. Floor area, gross means the total number of square feet of floor area in a building determined by horizontal measurements between the exterior faces of walls, excluding basement areas, porches, carports, and garages. Front lot line means the front lot line of an interior lot separating the lot from the fronting street right- of-way. The front lot line of a corner lot shall be the lot line upon which the principal building entrance will front. Frontage means the distance for which property abuts one (1) side of a street, road, or highway, or other public way measured along the dividing line between the property and such road, or highway, or other public way. Frontage roadway or access street means a roadway contiguous to and generally paralleling an expressway, major street or highway, or through street or highway and so designed as to intercept, collect and distribute traffic desiring to cross, enter, or leave such facility, and to furnish access to property which otherwise would be isolated as a result of controlled-access features peculiar to topographic conditions. Garage means a building used for the storage or housing of motor-driven vehicles. Garage, private means a garage intended for and owned or used by the members of families resident upon the premises provided that not more than one-half of the garage space may be rented for private vehicles owned or used by persons not resident on the premises, except that all the space in a garage of one (1) or two (2) car capacity may be so rented. Such a garage shall not include those used by more than one (1) commercial vehicle per family resident on the premises, and no such commercial vehicle shall exceed two (2) ton capacity, nor shall such garage provide for the repair or equipping of such vehicles. Garage, service means a garage used for repair of vehicles. Garage, storage means a garage used primarily for storage of vehicles. Guesthouse means an accessory building to be used solely by the occupant of the main building for his pleasure or recreation or to house nonpaying guests. Guestroom means a room which is designed or intended for occupancy by, or which is occupied by, one (1) or more guests, but in which no provision is made for cooking, and not including dormitories or sleeping purposes. Home occupation means an occupation for gain or support customarily conducted on the premises by a person or family residing thereon. The term "home occupation" shall not be deemed to include a tourist home. Hospital means any institution receiving in-patients or a public institution receiving out-patients, and authorized under state law to render medical or obstetrical care or both. The term "hospital" shall include a sanitarium for the treatment and care of senile psychotics or drug addicts, but shall not include office facilities for the private practice of medicine or dentistry. Hotel means any building containing sleeping rooms for the more or less temporary occupancy of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, with no provision made for any cooking in any individual room or suite. Hotel, apartment means any building which satisfies both the definition of a multiple- dwelling house and that of a hotel as defined by this section. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 10 of 137  Industrial street or boulevard means a street of some continuity used primarily by all forms of commercial or industrial vehicular traffic and used for intercommunication between commercial areas and residential areas and industrial districts, or between industrial districts. Interior lot means a lot which is not a corner. Junkyard means the use of property for outdoor storage, keeping, abandonment, sale, or resale of junk including scrap metal, rags, paper or other scrap materials, used lumber, salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials, and equipment, or for the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof. Kennel means the housing of four (4) or more dogs. Land or territory subdivision means a parcel or tract of land the dimensions of which are shown on a map on file with the Clerk of Superior Court of Thomas County, Georgia, as of the date of the adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives. Landing area means the area of the airport used for the landing, take-off, or taxiing of aircraft. Limited Use (L.U.) means a specific district or zone established pursuant to the Code of the City of Thomasville, Georgia, which zoning district is more particularly defined in paragraph (13) of section 22-81 of Chapter 22, Zoning. Lot includes the word "plot" or "parcel" and means a parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal building or use and any accessory building and uses customarily incident to it, including open spaces not less in extent than those required in connection therewith by this chapter. A "lot of record" is a parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a map or plat on file with the Clerk of Superior Court of Thomas County, Georgia, and which actually exists as so shown, or any part of such parcel held in a recorded ownership separate from the ownership of the remainder thereof. All lots recorded after adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of a public street, road or highway. Lot depth means the distance between front and rear lot lines. If two (2) opposite sides of such lot are not parallel, the depth shall be deemed to be the mean distance between the front and rear lot lines. Lot, through means a lot other than a corner lot, having frontage on more than one (1) street. Lot width means the distance between the side lot lines, measured along the front yard setback line as established by this chapter, or, if no setback line is established, the horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured along the street right-of-way line. Major street or highway means a highway primarily for through traffic, usually on a continuous route, with intersections at grade and having direct access to abutting property, and on which geometric design and traffic control measures are used to expedite the safe movement of through traffic. Manufactured home means a detached single-family dwelling unit, designed for long-term occupancy, which has been prefabricated and then transported to its site or to a sales lot on its own wheels, and requires only minor work before occupancy such as connection to utilities or to a foundation. Such units are usually fully equipped and furnished as opposed to a prefabricated house which may be constructed on or off its proposed site. Manufactured housing subdivision means a subdivision of land intended for the sale of lots to individuals for the placement and occupancy of manufactured homes. Master plan (comprehensive plan) means any legally adopted part, maps or element of the master plan as provided by the General Assembly of Georgia, Georgia Laws 1957, pages 420--443, approved by a vote of the Planning Commission, and, when legally required, adopted by the City Council. Mini-storage building means a small storage building which does not exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet in area and may be used for general storage purposes by one (1) or more persons as a single building or divided into compartments and may be leased or rented to the general public. Hazardous materials listed in section 408.3 of the 1988 edition of the Standard Building Code are not permitted. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 11 of 137  Minor or local street means a street primarily for access to abutting property. Motel means any building containing sleeping rooms for more or less temporary occupancy of individuals who are lodged with or without meals and where the design favors a direct vehicular approach to each sleeping or living room. Any building or structure exceeding two (2) stories in height shall be classified as a hotel rather than a motel. Natural grade means the elevation of the ground adjoining the building. Nonconforming use means any use of a building or of land that does not conform to the regulations for the district in which it is situated as of the effective date of adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives. Nursery school means an agency, organization, or individual providing daytime care of four (4) or more children not related by blood or marriage or not the legal wards or foster children of the attendant adult. Nursing home means a rest home, nursing home, convalescent home to render domiciliary care, but not including facilities for the care of mental patients, epileptics, alcoholics, drug addicts and not including nursery schools. Open space means any parcel or area of land or water set aside, designated, dedicated, or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment and for the use and enjoyment of owners, occupants, and their guests of land adjoining or neighboring such open space. Open space may include active recreational facilities such as play equipment for youngsters, ball fields, picnic tables. Parking lot means a parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces which may include partially enclosed one-story buildings, and where a charge is made for storage or parking of vehicles. Parking lot accessory means a parcel of land used by an individual, partnership, firm or corporation in any commercial or industrial district exclusively for the parking of vehicles of its employees or customers and for which no charge is made. Parking space means an area of appropriate dimensions of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet net, exclusive of access or area, or ramps or columns, etc., to be used exclusively as a temporary storage space for private motor vehicles. Truck loading and unloading space shall not be included in such area. When the application of a unit of measurement for parking spaces to a particular use of structure results in a fractional space, any fraction under one-half shall be disregarded and fractions of one-half or over shall be counted as one (1) space. Planting strip means the portion of the street between the curb and the property line exclusive of the area occupied by the sidewalk. Portable structures mean mobile homes, converted mobile homes, trailers of any kind, or other portable wheeled structures (whether on wheels or with wheels removed and placed on a foundation) that can be driven or towed on their own chassis, and any structure designed, built and intended to be transportable from one (1) location to another. This definition does not include those structures regulated by the Georgia Industrialized Building Act. Primary facade means the elevation of a structure with the main entrance; also referred to as the building front facade. Principal building means the building containing or to contain the principal use of a lot. Principal use means the principal purpose for which a lot or the main building thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, and for which it is or may be used, occupied, or maintained. Public notice means a notice published twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least fifteen (15) days prior to a public hearing concerning proposed changes or amendments to this chapter or the maps thereto, or both, setting forth the time, place, and purpose of such public hearing. Public street means right-of-way dedicated to the city or owned by the city for public street purposes. Rear lot line means the rear lot line boundary opposite and more or less parallel to the front lot line. The rear lot line of an irregular or triangular lot shall be, for the purposes of this chapter, a line not less than ten (10) feet long, lying wholly within the lot, and parallel to and farthest distance from the front lot line. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 12 of 137  Recreation vehicle park mean a licensed business operation which leases spaces for short term location of recreation vehicles, travel trailers or campers, used primarily for leisure time activities. Such short term location shall be limited to rental by the day or week only for a period of thirty (30) days or less. Recreation vehicle stand means the site designed for the placement of a recreation vehicle and its cabana, accessory structures, utility connections, and off-street parking facilities. Recreation vehicle, travel trailer and camper means a vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation uses, which is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a camper or travel trailer, is not more than eight (8) feet six (6) inches in body width, and does not exceed thirty-one (31) feet in length. Redevelopment means the demolition or removal of the principal structure of more than fifty percent (50%) of the impervious surface of a site; any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a building or structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered redevelopment regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however include either: (a) any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the Chief Building Official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions. (b) any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure. Satellite receiving dish antenna means a dish-shaped or parabolic-shaped receiving or transmitting antenna (including antennae stored or temporarily placed) for the reception or transmission or both of terrestrial or satellite signals, including television signals, AM radio signals, FM radio signals, telemetry signals, data communication signals or any other reception or transmission signals using free air space as a medium, whether for commercial or private use. Senior citizens home means a home for elderly people who choose to live in a place with people their own age, and who do not require regular nursing care or medical attention. Service station means any building or premises used for the storing, dispensing, servicing, sale or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels and lubricants and automobile accessories, but not including major automobile repairing. Setback means the distance from the property line to the building. (a) Front setback means the distance from a public right-of-way to the building. (b) Side setback means the distance from the property lines connected to the property line adjacent to the public right-of-way extending away from the public right-of-way to the building. (c) Rear setback means the distance from the rear property line to the building. (d) Corner setback means corner lots are considered to have double frontage or two front setbacks and one side and rear setback. Shopping center means two (2) or more commercial establishments planned and managed as a single unit with off-street parking and loading facilities provided on the property. Shoulder means that portion of a roadway between the outer edge of the paved surface or the curb to the inside edge of the ditch or gutter or original ground surface. Side lot line means a side lot boundary line that is not a front lot line or a rear lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from a street line is an exterior side lot line. Any other side lot line is an interior side lot line. Sidewalk means that portion of a street or road available exclusively for pedestrian traffic. Stable, private means a building with a capacity sufficient to accommodate not more than three (3) horses or mules. Storefront means the portion of a building at the first story that is available for retail use. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 13 of 137  Story means the vertical distance of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the next floor above it, or, if there be no floor above it, then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it, provided that a cellar shall not be considered a story. Attic or basement space is construed as one-half story. Street means a public thoroughfare, twenty-one (21) feet or more wide, where public title to land extends between right-of-way lines. Whenever the sense of the law or these regulations so requires, the word "street" shall include avenue, drive, circle, road, highway, or similar terms as they are generally understood. Street grade means the grade of the curb or centerline of street upon which the lot abuts at the midpoint of the frontage. Street line or right-of-way line means the dividing line between a lot, its property line or lines, and a public right-of-way, a public street, road, or highway, or a private street, road or highway, over which two (2) or more abutting owners have an easement or right-of-way. Street width means the horizontal distance between the right-of-way lines of the street, measured at right angles to the right-of-way lines. Structural alterations mean any change in the supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, floor joists, or roof joists, or in the exterior walls. Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, manufactured homes, accessory buildings, billboards, swimming pools, fall-out shelters, outside heating and air conditioning units, but do not include walls or fences. Subdivision means the division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, plats, sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or of building development for purposes other than agricultural. It includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or territory subdivided. Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a building or structure whereby the cost of restoring the building or structure to its condition before the damage occurred would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the undamaged building or structure. Through street or highway means every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrance to which vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected. It generally is radial or circumferential in relation to present heavily populated areas, and is intended to provide continuous, wide, direct, and adequate routes designed to insure the future stability of the expanding urban areas within the county and the region. They usually include all state and federal highways not otherwise designated in the master plan. Tourist home means a dwelling in which sleeping accommodations are provided or offered to transient visitors for compensation. Typical Window means the window in a building that is used most frequently. Tree means any object of natural growth. Variance means a relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of  the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. Visible means any portion of a building facade which is seen from any public right-of-way along the frontage line of the property Window light means a pane of glass, a window, or a compartment of a window. Yard, front means that area of a lot lying between the abutting street right-of-way and the principal building of the lot and extending across the front of a lot from side lot line to side lot line. Yard, rear means that area of a lot extending across the rear of a lot from side lot line to side lot  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 14 of 137  line and lying between the rear lot line and the principal building on the lot. Yard, side means that area of a lot between the side lot line and the principal building on the lot extending from the front yard to the rear yard. (Code 1958 § 24-5; Ord. of 3-26-73; Ord. of 4-23-73; Ord. of 3-25-74; Ord. of 7-12-82; Ord. of 2- 25-85; Ord. of 3-23-87, § 1; Ord. of 10-24-88, § 1; Ord. of 1-23-89(3), § 1; Ord. of 8-12-91, § II; Ord. of 10-14- 91, § I; Ord. of 8-28-95, §§ 1,11) Cross reference--Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2. ((2005) 22-6, Amended, 06/29/2005; 2005 (22-6), Amended, 05/23/2005, added definitions; 2004 (22-6), Amended, 12/13/2004; 22-6, Amended, 11/22/2004, amended definition of redevelopment; 22-6, Amended, 07/26/2004, added definitions necessary for new section 22-182, "Architectural standards"; 2003(22-6), Amended, 12/22/2003, added definition of "Limited Use"; 2003 (22-6), Amended, 07/14/2003, added definitions for "assisted living facilities"- personal and institutional (group) care); 2017 (22-6), Amended, 4/10/17, added definition for “Community Gardens”  Section 22-7 Interpretation and application. In interpreting and applying these regulations, the requirements contained in this article are declared to be the minimum requirements necessary to carry out the purpose of these regulations. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, these regulations shall not be deemed to interfere with, abrogate, annul, or otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties. Whenever the provisions of these regulations impose greater restrictions upon the use of land or buildings, or upon the height of buildings, or require a larger percentage of lot to be left unoccupied than the provisions of other ordinances, rules, regulations, permits, or any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, the provisions of these regulations shall govern. (Code 1958, § 24-6.01)   Section 22-8 Zoning affects all land and buildings. No buildings, structure, or land shall be used or occupied, and no building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered unless in conformity with the regulations of this chapter. (Code 1958, § 24-6.02)   Section 22-9 Every use must be upon a lot. No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance. (Code 1958, § 24-6.03)   Section 22-10 Only one principal building per lot. Except as provided in section 22-42, there shall be no more than one (1) principal building or structure upon any lot other than within an M-1 district. (Code 1958, § 24-6.04)   Section 22-11 Open space not to be encroached upon. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 15 of 137  No open space shall be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity to the yard, setback, off-street parking spaces, and such other regulations required by this chapter for the district in which such building is located. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and planted buffer strips shall be construed not to be encroachments of yards. (Code 1958 § 24-6.05)   Section 22-12 Required open space may not be used by another building. No part of any yard, other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any building, structure, or use by this chapter shall be considered to be part of a required yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space for any other building, structure, or use except as provided in section 22-286. (Code 1958, § 24-6.06)   Section 22-13 Reduction of yards or lot area. (a) Except as provided in section 22-25, no lot existing at the time of passage of the ordinance from which this section derives shall be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this chapter for the district in which it is located unless such reduction or division is necessary to provide land that is needed and accepted for public use. (b) When an accessory building is to be located on a corner lot, the side lot line of which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the lot to its rear, such building shall not project beyond the front yard required on the lot in rear of such corner lot. (c) In the case of double frontage lots, accessory buildings shall observe front yard requirements on both street frontages wherever there are any principal buildings fronting on such streets in the same block or adjacent blocks. (Code 1958, § 24-6.07)   Section 22-14 Encroachment on public rights-of-way. No building, structure, service area, or required off-street parking and loading facilities, except driveways, shall be permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way. (Code 1958, § 24-6.08)   Section 22-15 Location of accessory buildings or uses on residential lots. Accessory buildings shall not be erected in any required yard, except a rear yard, provided further that in no instance shall such a building be nearer than five (5) feet to any rear lot line, nor in any case nearer than the required side yard for the principal building for the district in which it is located. (Code 1958, § 24-6.09)   Section 22-16 Accessory buildings or uses on nonresidential lots. Accessory buildings or uses on nonresidential lots shall comply with front, side and rear yard requirements established for the zoning district in which such accessory buildings or uses are located. (Code 1958, § 24-6.10)   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 16 of 137  Section 22-17 Recreation vehicle, travel trailer, or camper. One (1) recreation vehicle, travel trailer or camper as defined in section 22-6 may be stored on a residential lot provided it is locked or unoccupied. (Code 1958, § 24-6.11)   Section 22-18 Portable structures. Portable structures may be used as an office as follows; portable structures used for any other occupancy are prohibited, except for storage: (a) Mobile home sales lots. Mobile homes converted to offices may be used on mobile home sales lots. No other type of portable structure may be used. The office may have living accommodations for a night watchman. (b) Construction sites. Any type of portable structure may be used as a construction site office for the duration of the construction. Immediately upon completion of the project, the portable structure shall be removed. Construction site office may have living accommodations for a night watchman or superintendent during construction. (c) Restrooms required. Portable structures used as offices shall be equipped with bathrooms or restrooms as required by the intended occupancy. (d) Nonconforming use. Any portable structure used for any purpose not permitted by this section is declared to be a nonconforming portable structure. When the use of a nonconforming portable structure is discontinued for a period in excess of six (6) months, the structure shall be removed from the property. Vacancy or non-use or both of the structure, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance under this section. (e) Temporary offices. Portable structures may be used as temporary offices during the construction of new office facilities. Restroom facilities must be provided in the temporary office or either in a nearby adjacent building. Portable offices must be removed immediately upon completion of new office spaces. The length of time of use, size architectural design and placement of these portable offices must have prior approval from the city planner. (Code 1958, § 24-6.12; Ord. of 10-24-88, § 1; Ord. of 8-28-95, § III)   Section 22-19 Every lot shall abut a public street; exceptions. No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut an open public street unless the lot meets the following requirements: (a) For commercial property, the owner must: (1) Secure permanent easements for all required city utilities and infrastructure; and (2) Secure a permanent thirty (30) feet easement for ingress and egress to property. (b) For residential property, a subdivision may be built on private streets and access to the property limited provided the following requirements are met: (1) The subdivision contains a minimum of twenty (20) lots; (2) The owner must enter into an agreement with the city for the maintenance of all streets and infrastructure within the development. All costs of the repairs and maintenance shall be paid by the owner and/or developer; and (3) The owner must provide the city with a permanent easement for the maintenance of said streets, infrastructure, and utilities. (Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § I)  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 17 of 137   Section 22-20 Lots with multiple frontage. (a) In the case of a corner lot, side yard setback requirements from the property line shall be equal to seventy-five (75) percent of that required for the front yard setback for the district. On a corner lot where the main entrance into a residence is facing a side yard, it shall be permissible for purposes of this chapter to construe the residence to bc fronting on the street other than that street which such entrance faces, and side and rear yard requirements may be provided accordingly. If a building is constructed on a through lot having frontage of two (2) roads not at an intersection, a setback from each road shall be provided equal to the front yard requirement for the district in which the lot is located. (b) In the case of corner lot zoned commercial, the street side yard setback shall be a minimum of five (5) feet. (Code 1958, § 24-6.14; Ord, of 4-24-72)   Section 22-21 Screening required. Wherever screening is required by this chapter, a masonry or wood fence of sufficient opacity or chain link fence with slats of sufficient opacity or a fence and hedge of sufficient opacity or any fence combination to provide an effective visual blind designed to be reasonably compatible with the character of adjoining properties shall be provided and properly maintained. Such fences and walls shall be at least five (5) feet in height, but no greater than seven (7) feet in height, measured from the ground along the common lot line of the adjoining properties. Hedges or comparable natural plantings shall be of such variety that an average height of at least six (6) feet could be expected by normal growth within no later than three (3) years from the time of planting. (Code 1958, § 24-6.15; Ord. of 7-12-82)   Section 22-22 Side and rear yards not required next to railroad. Within any nonresidential district, side yards and rear yards shall not be required adjacent to railroad rights-of-way. (Code 1958, § 24-6.16)   Section 22-23 Substandard lots of record. (a) Any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance which has an area or a width which is less than required by this chapter shall be subject to the following exceptions and modifications: In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter which has an area or a width which is less than that required by this chapter may be used as a building site for a single-family dwelling or other use permitted in that zone; provided, however, that the same yard, setback, open-space, and other dimensional requirements are met that would be required for a standard lot or required as stipulated in section 22-181 or as modified elsewhere in this chapter. (b) Any substandard lot of record may increase the maximum lot coverage to forty percent (40%). (Code 1958, § 24-6.17; Ord. of 4-26-82) (2005 (Sec.22-23b), Amended, 06/29/2005, (b) added)   Section 22-24 Intersection visibility and corner setback. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 18 of 137  In all zones, except on corners where a traffic light is existing and operating twenty-four (24) hours daily, no construction, hedge, bushes or other obstruction to a clear view which extends over three (3) feet in height shall be permitted at any corner of intersecting streets where either or both of the streets are less than sixty (60) feet in width, within the area formed by the legs of a triangle where apex is a point of intersection of the centerline of the traveled roadways and the legs of which are three hundred (300) feet along the centerline of the thru street and thirty-three (33) feet along the centerline of the stop or minor street and the hypotenuse of which is the line connecting the end of the legs. Exceptions shall be made for utility poles, lighting standards, traffic and street signs and trees (on city property), the branches of which are kept trimmed to a height of eight (8) feet above the street level. Nonconforming buildings shall be excepted from this provision. (Code 1958, § 24-6.18)   Section 22-25 Permitted modification of setback requirement. When a building or structure is proposed on a lot and when on either or both lots which adjoin such lot at the street right-of-way line there exists a principle building which does not conform to the setback requirements of this chapter, the required setback for such building or structure shall be as follows: (1) Where only one (1) such adjoining lot contains a principal building with a nonconforming setback, the setback shall be the computed average of the normal setback requirement with the nonconforming setback; or (2) Where both adjoining lots contain a principal building each with a nonconforming setback, the minimum setback shall be the computed average of the two (2) nonconforming setbacks. (Code 1958, § 24-6.19)   Section 22-26 Zoning to apply when lot is divided by district boundary line. In the event that a district boundary line on the zoning map divides a lot of record held in one (1) ownership on the date of passage of the ordinance from which this section derives, each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this chapter for the district in which each such parcel is located; except, however, that if the property owner of such a lot, other than a through lot, so desires, he may extend a use allowed on the greater portion of the lot fifty (50) feet beyond the district boundary line in accordance with setbacks and yard requirements of the district into which he is encroaching. (Code 1958 § 24-6.20)   Section 22-27 Height limitations of walls and fences. Within any residential district, no wall or fence shall exceed six (6) feet in height within or along a boundary of a front, side or rear yard. (Code 1958, § 24-6.21; Ord. of 7-12-82)   Section 22-28 Screening of service areas within one hundred feet of public street. Any service area, refuse, or storage area between a principal building and a public street being visible from such street and lying within one hundred (100) feet of such street shall be screened from view from the public street as specified in section 22-21 if within any commercial area or C-1A area. (Code 1958 § 24-6.22)   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 19 of 137  Section 22-29 Required buffers in C-1, C-2, M, and M-1 districts. In a C-1, C-2, M, or M-1 zoning district where a lot abuts any residential district, a six (6) foot wide buffer shall be provided with screening as specified in section 22-21. Off-street parking associated with such uses shall be governed by this same provision. (Code 1958, § 24-6.23)   Section 22-30 Structures permitted above the height limit. The height limits of these regulations shall not apply to a church spire, belfry, cupola, dome, or ornamental tower not intended for human occupancy, monument, water tower, observation tower, transmission tower, chimney, smoke stack, conveyor, flag pole, radio or television tower, mast or aerial, parapet wall not extending more than four (4) feet above the roof line of the building, and necessary mechanical appurtenances. (Code 1958, § 24-6.24)   Section 22-31 Permitted encroachment of yards and setbacks. Architectural features such as cornices, eaves, steps, gutters, fire escapes, raised patios and raised decks may project not more than four (4) feet beyond any required setback line, except where such projections would obstruct driveways which are or may be used for access for service or emergency vehicles or both. (Code 1958, § 24-6.25; Ord. of 7-12-82)   Section 22-32 Modification of side yard requirements. When a lot of record has width of less than the frontage required in the district in which it is located, the zoning administrator shall be authorized to reduce the side yard requirements for such lot, provided, however, that there shall be not less than a six (6) foot side yard. (Code 1958, § 24-6.26; Ord. of 7-12-82)   Section 22-33 Uses prohibited. If either a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being permitted in a district, either as a matter of right, or as a conditional use, then such use, class of use, or structures for such uses, shall be prohibited in such district. (Code 1958, § 24-6.27)   Section 22-34 Special building setbacks. (a) In each of the districts described in this section no building, structure, or obstruction shall be erected or maintained on any land abutting the following street, streets, or highways nearer than the setback as follows: (1) Campbell Street. Fifty (50) feet from the centerline of such existing street on both sides between West Jackson Street and Pinetree Boulevard. (2) Cassidy Road. Thirty-five (35) feet from the centerline of such existing street on both sides between North Broad Street and Pinetree Boulevard. (3) Federal highways. Forty-two (42) feet from the centerline of such highway on both sides; provided, however, that if Smith Avenue, East Jackson Street, Cassidy Road, Campbell Street  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 20 of 137  or Remington Avenue is now or hereafter may be a federal highway, the setbacks specifically provided herein shall apply. (4) Hansell Street. Fifty (50) feet from each side of the centerline of the existing pavement along Bartow Street from West Jackson Street to South Street and along Hansell Street from South Street to East Jackson Street. (5) East Jackson Street. Forty-two and one-half (42 1/2) feet from the centerline of East Jackson Street now existing along both sides between Crawford Street and Pinetree Boulevard in all districts now or hereafter C-1 or C-2. (6) Remington Avenue. Forty-one (41) feet from the centerline of such existing street on both sides between South Crawford Street and South Dawson Street, and forty-two and one-half (42 1/2) feet from the centerline of such existing street on both sides between South Dawson Street and James Street. (7) Smith Avenue. Forty-two (42) feet from the old centerline of said street along both sides. (b) Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted in any way to require or permit less setback than is specifically required in each district provided. (Code 1958, § 24-8)   Section 22-35 Swimming pools (semiprivate and commercial). (a) As to commercial pools, zoning shall be as set forth in section 22-106 of the Code of the City of Thomasville. (b) As to semiprivate pools, such pools may be located as a matter of right in zones R2A and below. For semiprivate pools to be located in zones R1 and above, a request for rezoning the property proposed to conditional use--semiprivate swimming pool will be required. As to a proposed subdivision, where a pool is identified at the time of the preliminary and final approval, no rezoning will be required. (Code 1958, § 22-6.28; Ord. of 4-22-91(2), § I(24-6.28))   Section 22-36 Swimming pool (residential). (a) A residential swimming pool shall not be constructed in any required yard except a rear or side yard, provided further that in no instance shall a swimming pool or any of its appurtenances be located nearer than five (5) feet to any rear lot line, nor in any case nearer than the required side yard setback for the principal building for the district in which it is located. (b) When located on a corner lot, a residential swimming pool shall be located from the property line on the side street a minimum of seventy-five (75) percent of that required for the front yard setback for the district and the setback from the rear property line shall be fifty (50) percent of that required for the rear yard setback for the district. (Code 1958, § 24-6.29; Ord. of 7-24-72; Ord. of 7-12-82)   Section 22-37 Zoning of annexed areas. Areas annexed to the city subsequent to the adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives shall be placed in the A (agricultural) zoning district and shall remain A until such time as the comprehensive zoning plan of the city has been extended to include the annexed area and a zoning change is executed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for zoning amendments. Areas may also be simultaneously annexed and zoned when executed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for zoning amendments. (Code 1958, § 24-6.30; Ord. of 2-27-72; Ord. of 7-24-72)  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 21 of 137   Section 22-38 Mechanically emptied refuse containers. Any refuse container on private property which is the type that is picked up and emptied mechanically is subject to the following restrictions: (1) The container shall be in a location which is accessible twenty-four (24) hours a day. (2) The container shall be located within a paved area. (3) The container shall be placed on a four-inch thick concrete pad, not over two (2) inches above the pavement. The concrete pads shall extend a minimum of twelve (12) inches beyond the container wheels on all sides. (4) Containers in apartment complexes located in R-2A and R-2 zones less than one hundred (100) feet from a public street shall be screened or located in such a way as to be obscure from such street. (Code 1958, § 24-6.31; Ord. of 3-25-74) Cross reference--Solid waste management, Ch. 15. Section 22-39 Standards for satellite receiving dish antennae. Satellite receiving dish antennae are allowed in all zones. In all A, R-1A, R-1B, R-1, R-2A, R- 2, R- TH, R-CD and C-1A zones the following requirements will apply: (1) A satellite receiving dish antenna shall be erected only in a rear yard and the setback requirements will be the same as those required for an accessory building. "Rear yard" is defined as that portion of a lot which lies behind the rear wall of the principal structure located on the lot on the line which would be an extension of that rear wall to each side lot line. (2) The maximum height allowed is fifteen (15) feet, zero (0) inches measured from the ground and the maximum width allowed is twelve (12) feet, zero (0) inches. (3) There may not be more than one (1) satellite receiving dish antenna per residence, apartment complex, or condominium association. (4) The city building inspections department shall review the installation plans, which plans must be signed and sealed by a professional engineer registered in the state who shall certify that the satellite receiving dish antenna meets the structural, wind resistance and all other requirements of the standard building code as adopted by the city. Wind resistance is deemed to mean an ability to withstand winds up to one hundred twenty (120) miles per hour. The calculations of the engineer shall be submitted along with the plans. (5) Vegetation screening with a minimum height of five (5) feet (but subject to the height limitations for fences set forth elsewhere in the zoning chapter) shall be required between the object and residential properties which abut the rear yard, between the antenna and residential properties across such a front or side street, so as to screen the antenna from the view of persons on first floor levels of the nearby residential properties and from persons on those public streets. (6) After approval of the plans, a permit must be purchased from the building inspections department before installation can begin. (7) A property owner who has in place a nonconforming antenna at the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives may continue to maintain the antenna in that configuration for five (5) years from the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, at which time the nonconforming antenna must be brought into compliance with this chapter or removed, but should the property be sold or transferred, the nonconforming use must be removed within thirty (30) days from the date of purchase or transfer or be made to conform to this chapter. (Code 1958, § 24-6.32; Ord. of 2-25-85)  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 22 of 137    Section 22-40 Bed and breakfast homestay operation. Bed and breakfast homestay shall be permitted in all zones except M-1. Bed and breakfast homestay in all A, R-1A, R-1B, R-1 and R-2A zones shall be restricted to and comply with the following requirements: (1) That the chief building official shall establish under the direction of the city manager and city council a set of rules for bed and breakfast homestay operation and administer such rules. (2) Bed and breakfast operations shall be limited to two (2) bedroom units within any individual residential dwelling and total occupancy by transient persons shall be limited to four (4) per dwelling. (3) Bed and breakfast operations shall not be permitted any exterior advertising sign. (4) Bed and breakfast homestay operations in zones other than those restricted above shall be administered in accordance with the respective boarding or rooming house, tourist home, motel, hotel regulations established elsewhere within this chapter for such. (Ord. of 3-23-87, § I)   Section 22-41 Home occupations. A home occupation as defined by this chapter shall be governed by the following requirements: (1) Only residents of the dwelling may be engaged in the home occupation unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator. (2) The home occupation shall be clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential residential character of the building. (3) Home occupations shall not include any type of retail business (with the exception of e- commerce), manufacturing business, repair business, or clairvoyance, or fortunetelling. (4) Only one (1) point of business sign, not exceeding two (2) square feet in size, motionless, nonlighted, and attached to the principal building, shall be permitted, and no advertising signs shall be permitted. (5) Use of the building for this purpose shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the floor area of the principal building. (6) No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of the building shall be permitted. (7) The occupation shall not constitute a nuisance in the neighborhood. (8) No accessory buildings or outside storage shall be used in connection with the occupation. (9) Instruction in music and similar subjects shall be limited to two (2) students at a time. (10) Vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles only shall be permitted in connection with the conduct of the customary home occupation. (11) The following and similar uses shall be considered home occupations: Addressing service, art instructor, beauty shop (with no more than one (1) operator), dentist, doctor, drafting, dressmaking, insurance agent, manufacturing agent, music teacher, notary public, photography, real estate agent, tax consultant, ceramics, or e-commerce. (12) The Board of Architectural Review and Zoning Appeals may review and approve uses which are not named but are similar to the list of home occupations in subsection (11), provided the criteria set out in subsections (1) through (10) are met and the use otherwise meets the intent of this section. (13) The following additional conditions apply to home occupations located within the R-1A zoning district (a) No signage shall be permitted (b) Only those occupations as listed in subsection (11) or approved by the Board of  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 23 of 137  Architectural Review and Zoning Appeals as authorized in subsection (12) are permitted, given that any occupations requiring clients to be on the premise are not permitted. (c) At no time shall a client be allowed on the premises in the conduct of business. All physical meetings with clients shall be conducted off premises and outside of an R-1A zoning district. (d) No display of products shall be visible from the street. (e) Use of the building for this purpose shall not exceed ten (10) percent of the floor area of the principal building. (f) At no time shall merchandise be stored on the premises. (g) Deliveries shall be limited to not more than twice (2) per week. (Code 1958, § 24-9; Ord. of 7-12-82; Ord. of 3-23-09)   Section 22-42 Group development projects. Any group of buildings devoted to the same use or two (2) or more uses which are compatible under one (1) management or with common ownership, such as an apartment project or medical office development, known in this chapter as group development project, may be permitted as a conditional use within R-2A and R-2 zones areas after special review and approval of the city council and planning commission according to the provisions of section 22-382 and as a permitted use within C- 1A, C-1, C-2 and M, providing it shall meet the following requirements:  (1) Street access. Any building established as a part of a group development project which cannot properly be served by emergency or service vehicles from an abutting street shall be made accessible to such vehicles by a paved driveway having a roadbed width of not less than twenty (20) feet, exclusive of parking spaces. (2) Setback requirements. All buildings and structures established as a part of a group development project shall comply with the front yard setbacks, and the exterior side and exterior rear yard requirements established for the district in which located. (3) Illumination not to be a nuisance. Illumination devices such as but not limited to flood or spot lights shall be so placed and so shielded as to prevent the rays or illumination therefrom being cast into neighboring dwellings and approaching vehicles. (4) Uses prohibited. In no case shall a use be permitted as a part of a group development project that is prohibited by this chapter in the district in which such project is to be located. (5) Prior approval. The plot plan, blueprints and articles shall be previously approved by the Chief Building Official, the Superintendent of Utilities, and the City Engineer. (Code 1958, § 24-10; Ord. of 7-12-82) (Sec. 22-42, Amended, 11/22/2004, CU restrictions)   Section 22-43 Standards for Accessory Dwelling Unit  Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) shall be permitted in all zoning districts. The following requirements shall apply: (1) The accessory dwelling unit (ADU) must meet all of the development standards required by underlying zoning classification; except the rear setback can be reduced no less than ten (10) feet from the rear property line. (2) Existing ADU’s at the time of passage of this ordinance that do not meet the required standards may be allowed but will not be permitted to be altered in size except to meet all requirements. (3) No more than one (1) ADU shall be permitted on a lot with another dwelling and shall be  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 24 of 137  permitted only within the rear yard. (4) The lot size on which such use is to be established shall meet the minimum lot requirements for two-family dwelling in zoning districts: R-2A, R-2, C-1A, C-1, C-2, M. (5) The ADU footprint shall not exceed 720 square feet. (6) The ADU must be created through one of the following: (a) An addition to an accessory structure such as a detached garage or shop; (b) Construction of a new single-family detached house with detached accessory dwelling unit; (c) Construction of a detached accessory unit; or (d) Conversion of an existing detached accessory structure. (e) Connection of the principle building to a secondary building via back-building (breezeway, or similar structure) (7) The design of the accessory dwelling unit must be compatible with the principal building. To the maximum extent practicable; the exterior color, siding, roof pitch, window detailing, roofing materials, and foundation of the accessory dwelling shall be compatible to that which is found on the principal dwelling unit. The primary and the accessory dwelling units shall be designed to portray the character of a single family dwelling. (8) Only one entrance to the structure may be located on the front building elevation of the ADU unless multiple entrances are already in existence. (9) Rental of an ADU must be for a minimum of 30 consecutive days per tenant/lessee. (10) At the time of application for an accessory unit, the applicant shall provide proof of owner occupancy of the premises. (11) Ongoing owner occupancy of either the primary or the accessory dwelling unit is required and shall be enforced through recordation of a deed restriction to that effect with the County. (12) Conditions of approval, shall be filed with the County as deed restrictions within 30 days of approval. Evidence of such filing shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator within 30 days of said approval. (§ Ord of 1-18-17)    Section 22-44  Standards for Community Gardens. A Community Garden is a civic space open to the public, even if on private property, established as the primary use on an otherwise vacant lot, for small-scale cultivation of fruits, vegetables, plants, flowers, or herbs by multiple users. The land shall be served by a water supply sufficient to support the cultivation practices used on the site. Such land may include available public land. Community Gardens are a permitted use in all zoning districts subject to the following regulations: (1) Each Community Garden must have: (a) An established set of operating rules which must be approved by the Zoning Administrator of the City. These rules shall be posted on site and shall address items such as governance, hours of operation, maintenance, security requirements, and related responsibilities; and (b) A garden coordinator to perform the coordinating role for the management of the community garden and to liaise with the City Zoning Administrator. The name and telephone number of the garden coordinator and a copy of the operating rules shall be kept on file at the City Building Department. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 25 of 137  (2) A site plan must also be submitted and approved by the Zoning Administrator of the City. The site must be designed and maintained so that water will not adversely affect the current direction of water run-off. (3) Any structure used in conjunction with a community garden must comply with the following requirements. (a) Be located at least five (5) feet from any property line. (b) Garden sheds and greenhouses shall be permitted as structures: the aggregate of which shall not exceed 20% of the total lot area. (c) The following are not considered structures for the purposes of this section and are permitted: benches, raised/accessible planting beds, compost and waste bins, picnic tables, fences, garden art, rain barrel systems, cold-frames, hoop houses, apiaries and bicycle racks. (4) Fences shall not exceed six feet in height. (a) If the fence is taller than four feet it shall be at least 30% opaque. (b) If the fence fronts a street or right-of-way it shall not exceed four feet in height. (c) Fences shall be constructed of wood or wood/metal, "living fences" such as climbing plants on woven wire fence are strongly encouraged. (5) If a Community Garden is proposed on a site that is owned by the City or a governmental entity (including but not limited to the Downtown Development Authority, the Thomasville Payroll Development Authority, or the Thomasville-Thomas County Land Bank Authority) the proposed site users must provide a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment (ESA) and any other testing and reporting required by the owner. Any historical sources of contamination identified in the ESA must be tested to determine type and level of contamination; appropriate remediation procedures must be undertaken to ensure that soil is suitable for gardening. (6) Each Community Garden shall be maintained in accordance with Municipal Code Chapter 15 Solid Waste Management, Section 15-25A ARTICLE II. DEBRIS, WEEDS AND OTHER VEGETATION. (§ Ord. of 4-10-2017)  RESERVED: Sec. 22: 45-59   Section 22-60A ARTICLE II. NONCONFORMANCES  Section 22-61 Nonconforming lots. Any lot for which a plat or legal description has been recorded in the office of Clerk of the Superior Court of Thomas County at the time of passage of the ordinance from which this section derives which fails to comply with the dimensional requirements for the district in which it is located may if vacant be used for any of the uses permitted a conforming use, may have the structure improved, enlarged, or extended, provided that in either case: (1) Minimum requirements of the district for front, side, and rear yard, height, and floor area shall be complied with. (2) The lot be used for duplexes or multifamily dwellings when allowed within the district only if the lot meets the minimum lot area requirements for those uses in the district. (3) The requirements of section 22-23 are met. (Code 1958, § 24-15)   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 26 of 137  Section 22-62 Nonconforming open uses of land. Nonconforming uses consisting of lots used for storage yards, used car lots, auto wrecking, junkyards, golf driving ranges, miniature golf and similar open uses where the only buildings on the lot are incidental and accessory to the open use of the lot and where such use of the land is not permitted to be established hereafter under this article in the district in which it is located shall be governed by the following restrictions in addition to the other requirements in this article: (1) When a nonconforming open use of land has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be used for any nonconforming use. (2) Nonconforming open uses of land shall not be changed to any but conforming uses. (3) A nonconforming open use of land shall not be enlarged to cover more land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming. (4) When any nonconforming open use of land is discontinued for a period in excess of six (6) months, any future use of the land shall be limited to those uses permitted in that district under the provisions of this article. Vacancy and nonuse of the land, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance under this provision. (Code 1958, § 24-15.01)   Section 22-63 Nonconforming uses of structures. Nonconforming uses consisting of structures used, at the time of passage of the ordinance from which this section derives, for purposes not permitted in the district in which they are located shall, in addition to the other requirements of this article, be governed by the following restrictions: (1) An existing nonconforming use of a structure may be changed to another nonconforming use that is similar in its operation and effect on surrounding properties or may be changed to a conforming use. (2) An existing nonconforming use of a structure shall not be changed to another nonconforming use that generates more automobile or truck traffic, creates more noise, vibration, smoke, dust or fumes, is a more intensive use of structures than the existing nonconforming use, and is in any way a greater nuisance to the adjoining properties than the existing nonconforming use. (3) A nonconforming use of a structure shall not be extended or enlarged except into portions of the structure which, at the time the use became nonconforming, were already erected and arranged or designed for such nonconforming use. No structural alterations shall be made in any structure occupied by a nonconforming use, which would in any way increase the floor space, area, or volume of space occupied by the use. (4) When any nonconforming use of a structure is discontinued for a period in excess of one (1) year, any future use of the structure shall be limited to those uses permitted in that district under the provisions of this article. Vacancy or non-use or both of the building, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance under this provision. (Code 1958, § 24-15.02)   Section 22-64 Reconstruction of nonconforming structures. When a nonconforming structure is a structure containing a nonconforming use or nonconforming sign is razed or damaged by fire, flood, wind or act of God such structure or sign may be reconstructed as a nonconforming use only if the damage totals less than seventy-five (75) percent of the value of the structure. Structures which do not conform to the yard requirements of this article shall also be governed by this provision. (Code 1958, § 24-15.04; Ord. of 1-23-89(3), § 1)  Section 22-65 Changes in zoning. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 27 of 137  Any nonconformances created by a change in district boundaries or ordinance regulations after the date of passage of the ordinance from which this section derives shall also be governed by the provisions of section 22-61. (Code 1958, § 24-16)   Section 22-66 22-66--22-80. Reserved. Section 22-80A ARTICLE III. DISTRICTS Section 22-81 Establishment of districts. In order that the purposes of this chapter as defined in section 22-4 may be accomplished, there are hereby established within the City the zoning districts identified as follows:  (1) A Agricultural. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, such areas being protected from the depreciating effect of small lot development and also permitting rural agricultural uses. (2) R-1A Single-family residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, such areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment. (3) R-1B Single-family residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of ten thousand (10,000) square feet, such areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible with a desirable residential environment. (4) R-1 Single-family residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet, such areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment. (5) R-2A Multifamily residential. The purpose of this district is to provide orderly development of high density residential areas for one (1), two (2), and multifamily dwellings, such areas being protected from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment. (6) R-2 Multifamily residential. The purpose of this district is to provide orderly development of high density residential areas for one (1), two (2), and multifamily dwellings as well as professional offices, such areas being protected from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential-professional environment. (7) C-1A Limited business districts. The purpose of this district shall be to create an area in which residential, business, professional, educational, and institutional uses can be compatibly mixed while maintaining a healthful living environment for the residents of the district and at the same time preventing the development of blight and slum conditions. (8) C-1 Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect convenient areas for community shopping facilities consisting of a wide variety of sales and services. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 28 of 137  (9) C-2 Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to enhance and protect shopping facilities in the central business district of the City. (10) M Manufacturing. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial or other uses which do not create excessive noise, odor, smoke, dust, and which do not possess other objectionable characteristics which might be detrimental to surrounding neighborhoods, or to the other uses permitted in the district. (11) M-1 Manufacturing. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses which cannot comply with the regulations of the M district. (12) MH Zone (One-family manufactured housing residential district). The purpose of this zone is to provide a zone where lots may be purchased by individuals for the purpose of permanently locating a manufactured home or constructing a single-family residence with minimum lot sizes of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet. (13) L.U. Zone. The purpose of this zone is to allow the applicant to request that a certain area be designated as “Limited Use” (L.U. ), which area, after having been recommended by the planning and zoning commission and approved by the City Council, must be used for only those conditions prescribed by the City Council, which uses must be among those uses permitted in the zone from which the limited use zone is taken. Provided, further, however, that should any area designated as “limited use” fail to be used continuously for the limited use or uses approved by the City Council pursuant to this subsection, the subject area shall automatically revert to the zoning district from which the subject area was taken and designated “limited use.” Any applicant for a limited use may ask for and receive consideration by the planning and zoning commission under the same terms and conditions prescribed for any rezoning request. The applicant may in all eventualities attach to his application a site plan, architectural renderings or such other material as might be of assistance to both the planning commission and the City Council in their considerations. (14) R-TH Townhouse district. The purpose of this district shall be to: a. Encourage home ownership in the City through innovative housing arrangements which utilize design and building concepts which may be different from the standard single-family residence concept; b. Provide a wider variety of types of dwelling units than are available at the time of the enactment of the ordinance establishing this district; and c. Allow for innovative uses of real property which may not be suitable for development for other kinds of residential use. See section 22-206 et seq. for development standards. (15) R-CD Cluster housing. The purpose of this district shall be to provide savings in infrastructure installation, land resources and energy use through the allocation of dwellings, construction and physical impact to a given tract of real property to permit variation in lot size, shape, width, depth, and building setbacks without an increase in overall density of population or development while ensuring to the greatest extent possible compatibility with adjacent developments and existing neighborhoods. See section 22-231 et seq. for development standards. (16) R-TND Traditional Neighborhood Development. The purpose of the TND District is to create an innovative residential zoning classification that will: a. Encourage a pattern of neighborhood development that will be consistent with the traditional qualities of the City of Thomasville Historic Districts and that will be compatible with surrounding residential areas of the City. b. Be distinguished from other residential zoning districts through a unified plan for a neighborhood that includes a diversity of land uses and lot sizes, housing types and sizes to accommodate persons of a variety of stages of life in a pedestrian-oriented setting that is well integrated with the City’s neighborhoods, parks, civic spaces, and commercial uses. c. Result in fewer burdens on present and projected public services and utilities than  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 29 of 137  would result from conventional subdivision development. See section 22-235 et seq. for development standards. (Code 1958, § 24-7; Ord. of 4-9-79; Ord. of 9-22-86(1), §§ I, II; Ord. of 8-28-95, § IV) (2005 (22-81), Amended, 05/23/2005, added TND; 2003 (22-81), Amended, 12/22/2003, Limited Use addition)  Section 22-82 Zoning map. (a) The boundaries of each district are shown on a map entitled "Comprehensive Zoning Map Thomasville, Georgia" dated July 26, 1971 and certified by the mayor. The map and all explanatory matter thereon is hereby made a part of this chapter. (b) An accurate copy of the Comprehensive Zoning Map Thomasville, Georgia, shall be on file in the office of the zoning administrator at all times. Such map shall accurately show all map amendments made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and the date when the amendments became effective. It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to see to it that the Comprehensive Zoning Map Thomasville, Georgia, is displayed in his office and is kept up to date and accurately shows all amendments. (c) A description of the legal boundaries of the various zone districts has been omitted. Copies are available in the office of the chief building official in the city hall. (Code 1958, § 24-7.01)   Section 22-83 Interpretation of district boundaries, zoning map and references. (a) All recording references to deeds, maps, plats or other such data in this chapter unless otherwise indicated may be found in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Thomas County. (b) Reference once made to a plat of a subdivision shall extend to any other reference to the subdivision by name without the place of record of the plat again being made. (c) Where the boundary of a railroad right-of-way is the boundary of a district or zone or districts or zones and the total width of the right-of-way is not included by the word description in any district or zone, the total width of the right-of-way is included in the lower classification district or zone. (d) Where a conflict exists between the map description and the word description of a zone or district, the word description shall control. (e) The word description of zones or districts shall be used in interpreting the map descriptions. (f) If any land area lying within the limits of the city (exclusive of railroad right-of-way) has been omitted from zoning classification in this chapter, the omission is unintentional. If by reference to the word descriptions and the map descriptions it cannot be determined whether any particular land area within the limits of the city has been zoned or classified such particular land area shall be construed to be included and zoned as a separate parcel or parcels in the A zone. (g) If a district boundary line on the zoning map divides a lot of record held in one (1) ownership on the date of passage of the ordinance from which this section derives, each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this chapter for the district in which each such parcel is located; except, however, that if the property owner of such a lot, other than a through lot, so desires, he may extend a use allowed on the greater portion of such lot fifty (50) feet beyond the district into which he is encroaching. (h) Where any public street or alley is vacated officially hereafter or abandoned, the zone classification and regulations of the larger portion shall apply to the remaining smaller portion of the lot. (i) Where a street is in existence at the time of the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, and such existing street has less width than sixty (60) feet, it shall nevertheless be  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 30 of 137  defined as a street. (Code 1958, § 24-7.15)   Section 22-84 Historic district; conditional uses. Structures located within the historic district of the city and which appear on the Thomasville Historic Building and Site Survey in section 22-86 may be appropriated to conditional uses which are restricted to cultural facilities, restaurant, tearoom, antique shop, art studio and outlet, craft shop and outlet, boutique, photographic studio, flower shop (retail), gift shop, professional offices, drugstore, bookstore, music school or studio, dance school or studio, ice cream parlor, multifamily dwellings (provided that the number of dwelling units be specified in the request for such conditional use). Such approval is to be granted according to the terms and conditions of section 22-382. (Code 1958, § 24-8.03.1) State law reference--Facade and Conservation Easements Act of 1976, O.C.G.A. § 44-10-1 et seq. Section 22-85 Historic district boundaries. The boundaries of the Thomasville Historic District are determined to be as follows: To find a point of beginning begin at the intersection of the center line of North Madison Street with the center line of West Walcott Street and from this point of beginning run thence south along the center line of North Madison Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of West Washington Street; run thence in a westerly direction along the center line of West Washington Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of North Oak Street; run thence in a southerly direction along the center line of North Oak Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of West Jackson Street; run thence in a westerly direction along the center line of West Jackson Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Lee Street; run thence in an easterly direction along the center line of Lee Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Fletcher Street; and thence continuing along the center line of Fletcher Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of South Madison Street; run thence in a southerly direction along the center line of South Madison Street to the point where that center line intersects the center line of Little Street; run thence in an easterly direction along the center line of Little Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Gordon Avenue; run thence in a southerly direction along the center line of Gordon Avenue to a point where that center line intersects the center line of West Loomis Street; run thence in an easterly direction along the center line of West Loomis Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Metcalf Avenue (unopened); run thence in a westerly direction along the center line of Metcalf Avenue (unopened) to a point where that center line intersects the center line of East Hansell Street; run thence in a northerly direction along the center line of East Hansell Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Smith Avenue; run thence in an easterly direction along the center line of Smith Avenue to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Bennett Street; run thence in a northerly direction along the center line of Bennett Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Remington Avenue; run thence in an easterly direction along the center line of Remington Avenue to a point where that center line intersects the center line of South Hansell Street; run thence in a northerly direction along the center line of South Hansell Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of East Jackson Street; run thence in a westerly direction along the center line of East Jackson Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of South Love Street; run thence in a northerly direction along the center line of South Love Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of East Washington Street; run thence in a westerly direction along the center line of East Washington Street  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 31 of 137  to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Young Street; run thence in a northerly direction along the center line of Young Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Walnut Street; run thence in a westerly direction along the center line of Walnut Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of Chestnut Street; run thence in a southerly direction along the center line of Chestnut Street to a point where that center line intersects the center line of North Boulevard; run thence in westerly direction along the center line of North Boulevard to a point where that center line intersects the center line of North Crawford Street; run thence in a southerly direction along the center line of North Crawford to a point where that center line intersects the center line of East Walcott Street; run thence in a westerly direction along the center line of East Walcott Street to the point of beginning. (Code 1958, § 24-8.03.1;   Section 22-86 Thomasville Historic Building and Site Survey. The following table identifies structures by street address within the historic district which may be appropriated to conditional uses, which are restricted as provided in section 22-84. Such structures are rated according to the following numerical designations:  Thomasville Historic Building and Site Survey  Legend: 1-- Outstanding 2--Excellent 3--Notable  Street No. Rating Street No. Rating North Broad: 312 1 108 3 320 2 122 3 329 1 135 1 418 3 210 3 425 1 215 1 503 3  509 3 516 2 Colton Avenue: 520 3 116 2 609 3 610 3 North Crawford: 615 3 312 3 621 3 316 3 700 3 320 1 Old Cemeteries 1 321 3  Big Oak Park 1 South Broad: 407 3 101 2 411 3 103 2 415 3 105 2 419 3 107 2 422 3 108 3 429 3 109 1 432--34 3  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 32 of 137  116 1 502 3 124 3 513 3 126 2 518 3 128 2 City Park 3 130 1 817 3 132 3 200 1 South Crawford: 206 2 210 3 216 3 North Dawson: 401 3 108 2 502 2 115 2 508 3 116 2 704 2 130 3  216 1 East Calhoun: 303 3 131 3 310 2  316 3 West Calhoun: 319 3 104 3 324 1 110 3 329 3  402 3 East Clay: 412 1 119 3 413 2 125 3 419 3 212 3 420 2 215 3 429 1 317 3 430 3 426 3 435 1 429 2 436 3 503 3 439 3 511 2 442 2 519 2 446 2 522 1 701 2 529 3 711 1 602 2 717 2 602 1/2 3 725 3 603 2 801 3 618 2 805 3 626 1 817 1 627 2 Paradise Park 1 704 1 110 West Hansell 3 709 2 710 2 East Jackson: 714 1 144 2 725 3 200 3 Log Cabin 1 218 2 Bowling Alley 1 221 3 732 3 225 1  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 33 of 137  803 1 226 3 806 3 330 3 817 2 331 3 820 2 340 2 830 1 903 2 West Jackson: 920 3 208 3  210 3 South Dawson: 212 3 119 2 214 3 123 2 301 2 South Hansell: 309 3 120 3 311 3 206 3 312 2 403 1 313 3 404 2 315 3 411 2 316 3 420 1 319 3 421 2 426 2 North Madison:  107 3 East Jefferson: 207 2 123 2 134 2 East Monroe: 210 3 125 3 219 3 207 3 312 1 214 2 326 3 218 3 327 3 222 3 330 3  Park Avenue: West Jefferson: 113 3 115 3 117 3 Remington Avenue: 203 2 117 3 300 3 128 3  216 3 East Jerger: 229 3 204 3 330 2 319 3 331 1 323 3 406 1 327 3 432 3 328 3 437 2 331 3 445 1  518 3 East Loomis: 520 3 213 3 524 3  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 34 of 137  North Love:  Seward Street:  115 3 128 3 121 3 129 3  South Love:  East Walcott:  107 2 303 1 113 3 315 3 117 3 316 2 118 3 121 2 Warren Avenue: 122 3 207 3 141 2 209--11 3 201 3 221 2 205 3 229 3 207 3 230 3 215 3 219 2 233 3 315 2 234 2 322 2 315 3 327 2 Webster Street: 333 3 111 3  East Washington:  Young Street:  111 3 207 3 119 3 211 3 211 3 215 3 217 3   (Code 1958, § 24-8.03.1)   Section 22-87 22-87--22-105. Reserved. Section 22-105A ARTICLE IV. PERMITTED USES   Section 22-106 Schedule of permitted uses. (a) Table of permitted uses. Within the various zoning districts as indicated on the comprehensive zoning map Thomasville, Georgia, no building, structure, or land shall be constructed, erected, altered, or used except as indicated in the following schedules. (b) Uses permitted by right. Uses permitted as a matter of right are indicated on the following schedule by the letter "X" in the appropriate column. (c) Conditional uses. Uses permitted only after special review and approval of the city council and planning commission (see section 22-382) are indicated on the following schedule by the letters "CU" in the appropriate column. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 35 of 137  A R- 1A R- 1B R- 1 R- 2A R- 2 C- 1A C- 1 C- 2 M M- 1 M H R- TH R- CD RESIDENTIAL AND RELATED USES  1. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR USES    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X 2. BED AND BREAKFAST HOMESTAY  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X 3. BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE, provided that the property has included thereon one (1) rear parking space and provides at least three thousand six hundred thirty (3,630) sq. ft. of lot area per each bedroom unit with a minimum lot size of fifteen thousand (15,000) sq. ft.        C U      CU      C U      C U      C U   3(a)Personal Care Home(family) limited to not more than 6 persons in a residential zoning district and meet parking requirements as listed in the City of Thomasville zoning ordinances  X X X X X X  3(b) Personal Care Home (group) limited to not more than 16 persons in a residential zoning district and meet the parking and landscaping requirements as listed in the City of Thomasville zoning ordinances. minimum lot size in a residential zoning district is 15,000 sq. feet  X X X X X X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 36 of 137  3. (c)Institutional Care (Group) housing for more than 16 persons on a 24 hour basis; meet the parking and landscaping requirements as listed in the City of Thomasville Zoning Ordinances   X X X X  4. CHURCH OR OTHER PLACE OF WORSHIP, including Sunday school buildings, parish houses, convents, nursery schools, kindergarten, and other related uses on the same premises and operated by the church provided that within an A, R-1A, R-1B, R-1, R-2, R-2A, and C- 1A, the lot size shall be no less than two (2) acres   C U  CU  CU   C U  CU  X  X  X  X  X   5. DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY X X X X X X X X X X X X 6. DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY  X X X X X  7. DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY  X X X X X  8. FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES, located on a major or secondary street as specified on the Official Street and Road Classification and Major Thoroughfare Plan of Thomasville, Georgia    C U     X    X    X    X    X   A R- 1A R- 1B R- 1 R- 2A R- 2 C- 1A C- 1 C- 2 M M- 1 M H R- TH R- CD  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 37 of 137  9. GARAGE APARTMENT, provided no more than one (1) shall be permitted on a lot with another dwelling and provided such shall be permitted only within a rear yard and provided that the lot on which such use is to be established meets the minimum lot area requirements for two- family dwelling        X      X      X      X   10. GUEST QUARTERS OR SERVANT QUARTERS, provided no more than one (1) shall be permitted on a lot with another dwelling and provided such shall be permitted only within a rear yard and provided that the lot on which such use is to be established meets the minimum lot area requirements for a two (2) family dwelling and provided further that said property is not used as rental property        X        X     11. HOME OCCUPATION X X X X X X X X  12. RECREATION VEHICLE PARKS C U C U CU C U CU C U CU C U C U C U   13. MANUFACTUR ED HOUSING SUBDIVISION    X  14. PUBLIC OWNED RECREATION CENTERS, Y.M.C.A., AND INSTITUTIONS OF A SIMILAR NATURE   C U    C U   CU    C U   CU    C  U   CU    X    X   X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 38 of 137  15. SCHOOLS, ELEMENTARY, JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE  C U  C U  CU  C U  CU  C U  CU  X  X  X   16. SCHOOLS, KINDERGARTEN, provided that: (a) Off-street loading and unloading spaces are supplied; and, (b) At least one hundred (100) square feet of outdoor play area is supplied for each child accompanied; and (c) The entire play area is enclosed by a fence having a minimum height of four (4) feet and constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the children is ensured. C U         C U         CU         C U         CU         C  U         CU         X         X         X   BUSINESS USES  17. AMBULANCE SERVICE OR RESCUE SQUAD     C  U    X    X    X   X   18. AMUSEMENT OR RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES (COMMERCIAL), carried on outside a building such as a golf or baseball driving range, miniature golf course, softball field, and uses of similar nature      X    X    X    X    CU    CU 19. AMUSEMENT OR RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES (COMMERCIAL), carried on wholly within a building, such as cinema, theater, auditorium and uses of a similar nature          X    X    X    X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 39 of 137  20. ANIMAL HOSPITAL, COMMERCIAL KENNELS, VETERINARY CLINIC OR ANIMAL BOARDING PLACE, located at least two hundred (200) feet from the nearest residential zoned district      X    X    X   21. ART STUDIO  CU X X X  22. AUTOMOBILE, TRUCK, FARM EQUIPMENT, OR MOTORCYCLE SALES, REPAIR OF UPHOLSTERY; AUTO WASHETERIA, PAINT SHOPS, OR TIRE RECAPPING (Including rebuilding or parts or sales of parts and equipment indoors only, no outside storage of equipment or parts except for M district)         X       X       X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 40 of 137  23. AUTOMOBILE PARKING LOT OR PARKING GARAGE (COMMERCIAL)    X  X  X   24. BAKERY  X X X  25. BANKS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. Off-street parking requirements may be supplemented in R-2 zones provided that: (a)  The parking lot is located within four hundred (400) feet of the property upon which the principal building is located on; and (b)  Not more than fifty (50) percent of the required off-street parking shall be located in a R-2 zone          X        X        X        X   26. BARBER OR BEAUTY SHOP   X X X X  27. BARNS,SILOS,A ND FARM BUILDINGS  X     28. BOOKBINDING, PRINTING, ENGRAVING, BLUEPRINTING, PHOTOSTATING, OR LETTER SHOP     X    X   X   29. BUILDING CONTRACTOR AND RELATED ACTIVITIES SUCH AS SALE AND STORAGE OF BUILDING SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS, provided there shall be no outside storage of equipment or materials on the premises within any district other than an M district        C U      X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 41 of 137  30. BUSINESS SCHOOLS   X X X X  31. CLOTHING AND DRY GOODS STORES, including shoe stores, men's shops, women's shops, variety stores and stores of a similar nature     CU    X    X   X   32. CLUBS OR LODGES (PRIVATE)   X X X X  33. COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITIES, including dormitories and fraternity or sorority houses if located on main campus   C U    C U   CU    C U   CU    C U   CU    C U    C U   C U    X   CU   CU 34. CULTURAL FACILITIES, libraries, museums, and similar facilities   X  X  X  X   35. DANCE SCHOOL OR STUDIO   X X X  36. DEPARTMENT STORES   X X X  37. DRIVE-IN RESTAURANTS   X X X  38. DRIVE-IN THEATRE   X X X  39. DRUG STORES  X X X X  40. ELECTRICAL REPAIR and similar repair of a heavy commercial nature    C U  X   41. EXPERIMENTAL LABORATORY   X X X  42. FREIGHT EXPRESS OFFICE   X X X  43. FARMERS MARKET   X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 42 of 137  44. FEED SEED, AND INSECTICIDES, AND FERTILIZER RETAIL SALES    X  X  X   45. FLOWER SHOP (RETAIL)  X X X X  46. FLOWER SHOP (WHOLESALE)   X X X  47. FOOD STORES, including retail bakeries, meat markets, dairy products, confectioner shops, liquor stores, and stores of a similar nature     X    X   X   48. FUNERAL HOME   X X X X  49. FURNITURE UPHOLSTERY SHOP   X X X  A R- 1A R- 1B R- 1 R- 2A R- 2 C- 1A C- 1 C- 2 M M- 1 M H R- TH R- CD 50. GENERAL OFFICES   X X X X  51. GLASS SALES AND STORAGE   X X X  52. GOLF COURSE  X X X  53. GOLF COURSE, provided that: (a)  It shall be for daytime use only; and (b)  All greens and fairways shall be set back at least one hundred (100) feet from any property line; and (c) All tees and structures shall meet minimum setback requirements for single- family residences within the district        C U        C U        CU        C U        CU        C U        CU        X        X        X   54. GROCERY, FRUIT, OR VEGETABLE MARKET   X  X  X   55. GROUP DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS   CU C U  X  X  X    Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 43 of 137  A R- 1A R-1B R-1 R-2A R-2 C-1A C-1 C-2 M M-1 MH R-TH R-CD 56. GROWING OF CROPS, GARDENS (a) Vegetable or Flower Gardens (non- commercial residential) single and two family (b) Growing of Crops, Gardens, farming (commercial) (c) Community Garden  X   X   X  X   X X   X   X  X  X      X X X X  X X X  X CU CU CU X X X X X X X CU CU X 57. HARDWARE APPLIANCE STORE OR ELECTRICAL   X  X  X   58. HOME FURNISHINGS AND HARDWARE, such as appliance sales and repairs, hardware stores, paint stores, sporting goods stores, furniture stores, and stores of a similar nature      X    X    X   59. HOSPITALS, NURSING AND SENIOR CITIZEN HOMES, provided that: (a) The lot size for hospitals and nursing homes shall be no less than eighty thousand (80,000) square feet, in area; (b) The lot size for senior citizen homes shall be no less than sixty thousand (60,000) square feet in area;     X    X    X    X   X   60. JEWELRY STORE   X X X  61. HOTELS  X X X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 44 of 137  62. LABORATORY SERVICE PROFESSIONAL REQUIREMENTS- MEDICAL, DENTAL    X  X  X  X  X   63. LAUNDERETTE OR WASHERTERIA (Self- service laundries)    X  X  X   64. LIVESTOCK, such as horses, cows, chickens but not including pigs or hogs  X     65. LOCKSMITH, GUNSMITH   X X X  66. MEDICAL, DENTAL, OR SIMILAR CLINIC   X  X  X  X  X   67. MINI- STORAGE BUILDING provided that: (a) a solid fence, no less than 7 feet and no more Than 8 feet in height, constructed of approved materials as defined in Sec. 22-182, shall be erected so as to screen the     mini-storage buildings  from view. Any portion of any mini-storage building which is more than 14 feet above ground shall be required to meet the architectural standards of Sec. 22-182. (b) a 6 foot landscaped perimeter adjacent ot the fence required in (a) above, but no farther away from the fence than 10 feet, shall be required   X X X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 45 of 137  in order to provide an additional buffer. The landscaped perimeter shall meet the following requirements: (1) the total tree requirement within the perimeter area shall be determined by using a ratio of 1 tree for each 25 linear feet of required landscape area or major portion thereof, with no less than 75% of said trees being shade trees. Said trees are not required to be equally spaced 25 feet apart. Creative design and spacing is encouraged. All trees shall be provided at least 100 square feet of planting area each. (2)  Grass or other ground cover shall be placed on all areas within the perimeter landscape area not occupied by other landscape materials or permitted access ways. A list of approved planting materials for ground cover shall be maintained b y the City Planning department. 68. MOTELS  X X X  69. MUSIC TEACHING STUDIO   X X X X  70. NEIGHBORHOOD DRYCLEANING PLANTS   X  X  X   71. NEWSPAPER OR MAGAZINE PUBLISHING AND DISTRIBUTION   X  X  X  X   72. NEWSPAPER STAND   X X X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 46 of 137  73. NURSERY SCHOOLS, provided that: (a) Off-street loading and unloading spaces are supplied; and  X X X X X   A R- 1A R- 1B R- 1 R- 2A R- 2 C- 1A C- 1 C- 2 M M- 1 M H R- TH R- CD (b)  At  least  one hundred (100) feet of outdoor play area is supplied for each child accommodated; and, (c)  The entire play area is enclosed by a fence having a minimum height of at least four (4) feet and constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the children is ensured. 74. OFFICE EQUIPMENT SALES AND SERVICE   X  X  X   75. PAWN SHOPS  X X X  76. PERSONAL SERVICE SHOPS, such as shoe repair, laundry pickup stations, watch repair and services of a similar nature     X    X    X   X   77. PEST CONTROL, providing no outside storage other than within an M district     X   X   X   X   78. PHOTOGRAPH Y STUDIO   X X X X  79. PROFESSIONAL OFFICES, such as tax consultant, attorney, insurance agent, real estate agent, or engineering office     X    X    X    X   X   80. RADIO AND T.V. STUDIOS   X X X    Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 47 of 137  81.RADIO,TV, and TELE - COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS Cannot be located within (500) five hundred feet from any residential dwelling, residential or commercial zoning districts or street right-of-ways. If tower is not in use or is abandoned for 12 months, it shall be removed at the expense of the owner, and a Bond shall be posted with the City of Thomasville before the tower is erected to cover the cost of the removal. C U CU  82. RAILROAD OR BUS PASSENGER STATION   X  X  X   83. RAILROAD FREIGHT STATION   X X X  84. RESIDENTIAL MOBILE AND MODULAR HOME SALES LOT   X  X  X   85. RESTAURANT S AND FOOD CATERING SERVICE   X  X  X   86. RETAIL AUTO PARTS AND TIRE STORES   X  X  X   87. RETAIL CANDY AND ICE CREAM STORES   X X X X  88. SERVICE STATION provided that major auto repair  shall  not  be permitted, nor shall there be outside storage of equipment or materials other than merchandise offered for sale. X X X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 48 of 137  89. SHELL HOME DISPLAY YARDS   X  X  X        90. SHOPPING CENTERS   X X X  91. SMALL MOTOR REPAIR SHOPS   X X X  92. SHRUBBERY SALES   X X X  93.SPECIALTY SHOPS, such as novelty shops, gift shops, and stores of similar nature   X X X X  94.SWIMMING POOL (COMMERCIAL)   X X X  95. SWIMMING POOL (RESIDENTIAL)  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X 96. TAILOR  X X X  97. TAXIDERMIST  X X X  98. TAXI OFFICE  X X X  99. TELEGRAPH OR MESSENGER SERVICE   X  X  X   100. TRADE SCHOOLS   X X X  101. UTILITY TRAILER RENTALS AND RENT-ALLS   X  X  X   102. VARIETY STORE   X X X  103. RESERVED     104. VENDING MACHINES, of a size not to exceed H80", W40", D36" located out- of-doors subject to yard and setback requirements for the respective districts     X    X    X   X    X    X  105. VENDING MACHINE DISTRIBUTOR   X  X  X   MANUFACTURING, WHOLESALING &      Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 49 of 137  INDUSTRY  106. ACID STORAGE AND MANUFACTURING     C U   C U  107. FEED, GRAIN, OR FERTILIZER WHOLESALING AND STORAGE    X  X  108. FREEZER LOCKER SERVICE, ICE STORAGE    C U  X   109. GREENHOUSE AND PLANT NURSERY (COMMERCIAL). Heavy equipment allowed only in M district  X    X  X  X   110. HEAVY MANUFACTURING, any manufacturing, packaging, processing or handling of materials provided that any uses such as the manufacturing of cement, corrosive acids, bone distillation, drop forge industry, fat rendering, fertilizer manufacturing, organic material reduction, meat processing plants, and the like which produce noise, odors, dust, fumes, fire hazards, or other nuisance features shall be set back not less than five hundred (500) feet from any M district boundary            C U         CU  111. JUNKYARD OR AUTO GRAVEYARD, provided that: (a)  Said use shall not be located within eight hundred (800) feet of a major or secondary street as defined on the Official Street  and Road Classification and Major      Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 50 of 137  Thoroughfare Plan, Thomasville, Georgia; (b) If within five hundred (500) feet of a public right-of-way, an eight (8) foot high solid fence or wall shall be erected to screen the storage yard from view from the street. C U    X   LIGHT MANUFACTURING  112. APPLIANCE AND ELECTRONIC DEVICE ASSEMBLY PLANT including the manufacturing of parts for appliances and electronic devices        C U     X      X  113. ASSEMBLY O F PRODUCTS from previously prepared materials    C U  X  X  114. BOTTLING AND CANNING PLANT    C U  X  X  115. CONSTRUCTION OF SIGNS, including painted signs   X  X  X  X  116. CANNING PLANT   X X  117. CERAMIC PRODUCTS provided that kilns shall only be by gas or electricity    X  X  X  118. COSMETIC AND PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS    X  X  119. FOOD MANUFACTURING, but not i nc l ud i n g fish, meat products, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, and rendering plants      X    X  120. ICE MANUFACTURING      C U X X  1A 1B 1 2A 2 1A 1 2 1 H TH CD  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 51 of 137  A R- 1A R- 1B R- 1 R- 2A R- 2 C- 1A C- 1 C- 2 M M- 1 M H R- TH R- CD 121. LAUNDRY, cleaning and dyeing plants   X  X  X  X  122. LIGHT SHEET METAL PRODUCTS such as ventilating ducts and eaves    C U  X  X  123. MACHINE SHOP and related activities    C U  X  X  124. MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, toys, novelties, and similar products    C U  X  X  125. TINSMITH AND ROOFING SERVICE    C U  X   126. OTHER MANUFACTURING PROCESSING, packaging, or handling of a similar nature which shall not emit or produce more smoke, noise, odor, dust, vibration or fumes than the uses listed herein        C U     X   127. LUMBER YARD, COAL STORAGE YARDS, OR OTHER STORAGE NOT SPECIFICALLY LISTED IN THIS COLUMN, such yards if within an M district shall be enclosed by a fence and no storage shall be permitted outside such fence        X   128. PETROLEUM BULK PLANT (storage and refining)    C U  CU  129. PLANING OR SAW MILL   X X  130. RAILROAD CLASSIFICATION AND REPAIR YARD    X  X   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 52 of 137  131. RAISING OR SALE OF LIVESTOCK (STOCK YARD)     C U   132. SANITARY FILL OR INCINERATION    C U  CU  133. TRUCK TERMINAL   C U X  134. WAREHOUSIN G (Not related to sales on the premises) provided that the requirements set forth for Mini-Storage Buildings in Sec. 106 (c)(67) are met. C U  X  X  135. WHOLESALING OF A LIGHT COMMERCIAL NATURE when operated in conjunction with or as part of a retail outlet     X    C U   X    X  136. WHOLESALING (Not covered in other parts of this list)   C U  C U  X  X  MISCELLANEOUS  137. ARMORIES, for meetings and training of military organizations     C U    C U   X   138. TEMPORARY STRUCTURES, but not including tents for religious meetings    X  X  X   A R- 1A R- 1B R- 1 R- 2A R- 2 C- 1A C- 1 C- 2 M M- 1 M H R- TH R- CD 139. TEMPORARY BUILDINGS AND STORAGE OF MATERIALS (in conjunction with construction of a building), on a lot where construction is taking place or on adjacent lots, such temporary uses to be terminated upon completion of construction      X      X      X      X      X      X      X      X      X      X      X      X      X      X 140. PUBLIC     Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 53 of 137  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES including the construction, installation, operation, and maintenance for public utility purposes, of water and gas pipes, mains and conduits, electric light and electric power transmission and distribution lines, telephone and telegraph lines, oil pipe lines, sewer mains, incidental appurtenances and substation where permanent personnel will not be required        X        X        X        X        X        X        X        X        X        X        X        X  141. MUNICIPAL STRUCTURES C U C U CU C U CU C U CU C U C U C U CU C U  142. CEMETERIES. Cemeteries of a conventional type and nature serving the public and administered by a church or a group serving the public for general usage and also provided that a satisfactory site plan is submitted with evidence that: (a) The proposed cemetery is reasonably compatible with the existing land use and character of the neighborhood. (b) That traffic can be handled efficiently and with respect to existing conditions. (c) That appropriate landscaping, fencing and screening can be included if required in the site review             C U             C U             CU             C U             CU             C U             CU             C U             C U   143. SATELLITE RECEIVING DISH ANTENNA. There are special requirements for      Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 54 of 137  satellite dish antennae. These requirements can be found in Section 22-39, standards for satellite receiving dish antennae  144. TATTOO PARLORS OR STUDIOS. There are special requirements for tattoo parlors or studios which can be found in Sections 18-270 through 18-280. Tattoo parlors or studios are not allowed in any Historic District. X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X    X  X    X  X   X  X    X  X   (Code 1958, § 24-8; Ord. of 2-28-72; Ord. of 4-23-73; Ord. of 1-14-74; Ord. of 4-9-79; Ord. of 7-12-82; Ord. of 1-12-87(4); Ord. of 3-22-87, § I; Ord. of 12-28-87; Ord. of 1-23-89(3); Ord. of 8-28-95, § V; Ord. of 2-23-98, § I. (Ord 2-22-10; 2006 (22-144), Added, 02/13/2006; 2005[22-106#2,5,6,7,9,55], Amended, 03/14/2005; 22-106 (c) (67 & 134), Amended, 02/14/2005; 22-106(55), Amended, 11/22/2004; 2003 (3a,b,c), Amended, 07/14/2003; Ord. 2003 (22-104), Amended, 06/26/2003; Ord. 2000 (22-106), Amended, 11/27/2000; Ord. 2000 (22-106-81), Amended, 09/25/2000); Ord. 2017 (22-106 #56), Amended, 04/10/2017); Ord. 2017 (22-106 #103) Moved, 4/10/2017. Section 22-107 22-107--22-130. Reserved. Section 22-130A ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATION Section 22-131 Zoning administrator appointed; duties. The chief building official is hereby appointed as the zoning administrator and it shall be his duty to administer and to enforce this chapter. (Code 1958, § 24-17)   Section 22-132 Reserved Section 22-132, formerly captioned Building permit required, was repealed on 7-23-08 and replaced by the permitting requirements incorporated by reference in Section 5-31 of the Thomasville Municipal Code. Section 22-133 Reserved Section 22-133, formerly captioned Application for building permit., was repealed on 7-23-08 and replaced by the permitting requirements incorporated by reference in Section 5-31 of the Thomasville Municipal Code. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17   Section 22-134 Sign permits. The zoning administrator shall receive applications for the construction of signs, as required by this article. Such applications shall follow the same forms as required for building permits, and shall contain information required by section 5-500, compliance required. The zoning administrator shall process such sign applications and shall issue sign permits and sign permit numbers for proposed signs which comply with the requirements of this chapter. (Code 1958, § 24-17.03)   Section 22-135 22-135--22-150. Reserved. Section 22-150A ARTICLE VI. AMENDMENTS AND REZONING Section 22-151 Alternative methods; preliminary review required. This article, including the zoning map, may be amended by the city council: (a) On its own motion; (b) By petition of the property owner or the property owner's agent to whom the property owner has designated such authority in writing; (c) On recommendation of the planning and zoning commission, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall first have been submitted to the planning and zoning commission for review and recommendation. (Code 1958, § 24-21; Ord. of 7-28-86, § I; Ord. of 7-28-97(2), § I)   Section 22-152 Application for amendment. Applications for amendment of this article may be in the form of proposals for amendment of the text of this article or proposals for amendment of the zoning map. Applications for amendment shall be submitted to the zoning administrator and shall include a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fee, payable to the city, to defray expenses, except that the application fee shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for zoning amendments involving single-family residential with one (1) to four (4) units. Any application for a zoning amendment which is denied by the city council shall not be reconsidered for one (1) year after the date of denial. (Code 1958, § 24-21.01; Ord. of 7-28-86, § I; Ord. of 2-27-95(2), § I)   Section 22-153 Signature of applicant required. All applications shall be signed by the applicant, and shall state the applicant's name and address. (Code 1958, § 24-21.02; Ord. of 7-28-86, § I)   Section 22-154 Application for text amendment. In the case of a text amendment, the application shall set forth the new text to be added and the existing text to be deleted. (Code 1958, § 24-21.03; Ord. of 7-28-86, § I)    Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  Section 22-155 Applications for map amendment. An application for a map amendment shall include the following information: (1) The area in which the lot proposed to be rezoned is located and the street number, if any, or if none, the location with respect to the nearby public streets in common use; and, (2) A plat of the lot in question, or a description by metes and bounds, bearings, and distances of the lot, or, If the boundaries conform to the lot boundaries within a subdivision for which a plat is recorded in the land records of the county, then the lot, block, and subdivision designations with appropriate plat references and a copy of the deed to the land so described as required above; and, (3) The present zoning and the zoning proposed for the lot in question; and, (4) The name and address of the owners of the land; and, (5) The area of the land proposed to be rezoned stated in square feet if less than one (1) acre, and in acres if one (1) or more acres; and, (6) The application number, date of application, and action taken on all prior applications filed for the rezoning of the whole or part of the land proposed to be rezoned. (Ord. of 7-28-86, § I; Ord. of 1-12-87(3))   Section 22-156 Public hearing and notification. Before considering any proposed amendment which changes the text of this chapter or any amendment which rezones property from one (1) classification to another, a public hearing shall be held. No less than fifteen (15) days nor more than forty-five (45) days notice shall be given of the time and place of the public hearing. The notice shall give the time and place, application number and a summary of the proposed amendment, if a text amendment. In the case of a map amendment (rezoning), the location of the property, its area, name of owner and the proposed change of classification shall be stated. Such notices shall appear in at least two (2) consecutive issues of the newspaper used as the official legal organ of the city. (Code 1958, § 24-21.06; Ord. of 7-28-86, § I) (2005 (Sec.22-156), Amended, 06/29/2005)   Section 22-157 Notice to interested parties. In the case of a map amendment (rezoning), a notice of the application number, the applicant’s name, property location, current zoning classification and proposed zoning classification, and the date, time and location of the planning and zoning commission public hearing will be sent to all property owners within, but not limited to, four hundred (400) feet of the property proposed to be rezoned. Such notice shall be by U.S. mail, and shall be mailed so as to be received by local citizens not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than forty-five (45) days before the date of the hearing. Copies of each notice shall also be sent to each planning and zoning commission member. All application files shall be placed in the custody of the zoning administrator, and shall be open to public inspection during regular office hours. (Code 1958, § 24-21.07; Ord. of 7-28-86, § I)   Section 22-158 Referral to planning commission. Not less than seven (7) days prior to the scheduled hearing date, the zoning administrator shall transmit a copy of any application for amendment to each member of the planning and zoning commission for preliminary review. Additional copies of any application for amendment shall be made available in the hearing. The planning and zoning commission shall have a thirty-day period after a public hearing in which to submit its report to the city council. (Code 1958, § 24-21.05; Ord. of 7-28-86, § I; Ord. of 2-24-03) (22-158, Amended, 02/24/2003)  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17    Section 22-159 Rezoning policies and procedures. The following policies and procedures are hereby adopted by the city to provide established guidelines for the following: (1) The adoption of an amendment to the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance which changes the text of the zoning chapter; (2) The adoption of an amendment to the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance which rezones property from one (1) zoning classification to another; (3) The adoption of an amendment to the zoning plan and map sponsored by the city; (4) The adoption of an amendment to the zoning plan and map sponsored by the planning and zoning commission; (5) The adoption of an amendment to the zoning plan and map sponsored by a citizen/property owner. (Ord. of 7-28-86, § I)   Section 22-160 Policies and procedures for city planning commission initiated rezoning activities. (a) All amendments to any existing zoning plan must be reviewed by both the planning and zoning commission and the city council. However, when the boundary lines of an established zoning district are proposed for change (rezoning), the planning and zoning commission shall prepare an evaluation and recommendation with regard to such proposed item of rezoning, considering each of the following factors: (1) Existing uses and zoning of nearby property; (2) The extent to which property values are diminished by the proposed zoning restrictions; (3) The extent to which the destruction of property values, resulting from existing zoning of specific parcels, promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public; (4) The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner by the proposed zoning classification; (5) The suitability of the subject property for the zoning purposes as proposed; (6) The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned, considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property; (7) Conformity with or divergence from the zoning map; and (8) Recommendations of the Zoning Administrator of the City of Thomasville Planning Department. (b) The public hearing will be convened at the advertised time and place and will be presided over by the chairman of that meeting. (c) At each public hearing, the chairman of the hearing must allow each side of the zoning issue a minimum of ten (10) minutes per side for the presentation of data, evidence, and opinions pursuant to. The chairman will review, for those present, the following operating procedures: (1) In order for a person in attendance to speak, the chairman must recognize that person. Upon rising to speak, the person recognized will first identify himself. The chairman may also request that the person furnish a home or business street address, as appropriate. (2) The person speaking will be allowed a reasonable amount of time to express opinions and make comments on each separate element of the proposed revisions which he wishes to address. (3) Additional persons will be recognized through the procedure described in subsections (1) and (2), for the purpose of addressing additional elements of the proposed revisions or to make additional points with regard to elements already addressed, but not to revisit points already made. (4) Appropriate notes or minutes will be recorded by the planning and zoning commission at its public hearing. (d) The planning and zoning commission shall prepare and submit the necessary minutes, evaluations  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  and recommendations to the city council prior to the meeting of the city council at which action on the zoning request will be taken. (e) The city council will review the evaluations and recommendations from the planning and zoning commission and may choose to adopt or reject or modify the planning and zoning commission's recommendations, considering the factors set forth in this section, or the business may be tabled for additional study to the next regular meeting. (Ord. of 7-28-86, § I; Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § II) (Sec.22-160-(a)8, Amended, 03/28/2005)   Section 22-161 Policies and procedures for citizen/property owner initiated rezoning activities. (a) An application for rezoning must be filed with the zoning administrator at the municipal building as prescribed in sections 22-152 through 22-155. (b) The zoning administrator will inform the applicant, in writing, of the public hearing date required under the provisions of section 22-156. (c) The zoning administrator shall require to be erected upon the property for which rezoning is to be considered a sign of no less than eight (8) square feet announcing the public hearing; stipulating the date, time, and place for the hearing; the present zoning class; and the proposed zoning class. The sign shall be clearly visible from the street. It shall be erected not less than fifteen (15) days before the public hearing date. Failure to erect a sign will cause postponement of the hearing until this requirement is met. (d) The public hearing held by the planning and zoning commission will follow the same procedure as prescribed in section 22-160(c). Thereafter the planning and zoning commission shall prepare an evaluation and recommendation for the city council with regard to the proposed action, considering each of the factors set out in section 22-160(a). (Ord. of 7-28-86, § I; Ord. of 7-28-97(1), § I)   Section 22-162 22-162--22-180. Reserved. Section 22-180A ARTICLE VII. DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Section 22-180D DIVISION 1. GENERALLY Section 22-181 Specifications. Within the various zoning districts as indicated on the "Zoning Map of the City of Thomasville, Georgia," no building or structure shall be constructed or erected except as indicated in the following schedule: A R-1A R-1B R-1  Minimum Lot Area 15,000 sq. ft. 15,000 sq. ft. 10,000 sq. ft. 7,500 sq. ft. for Dwelling Units  Minimum Lot Width 100 feet 100 feet 80 feet 60 feet Minimum Front Yard 40 feet* 40 feet* 30 feet* 30 feet* Minimum Side Yards 10 feet* 10 feet* 8 feet* 8 feet* Minimum Rear Yard 40 feet 40 feet 30 feet 30 feet Maximum Height 35 feet 35 feet 35 feet 35 feet Maximum Lot Coverage 30 percent 30 percent 30 percent 30 percent  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  C-2 M M-1 MH Same as R-2 Same as R-2  R-2A R-2 C-1A C-1 Minimum Lot Area One-Family Same as R-2A Same as R-2A Same as R-2A Dwelling Units Res. 6,000 sq. ft.  Two-Family Res. 7,000 sq. ft. Multiple Family Res. 3,630 sq. ft. per dwelling unit** Minimum Lot Width 60 feet 60 feet Minimum Front Yard 20 feet* 20 feet* 20 feet* Minimum Side Yards 8 feet* 8 feet* 8 feet* 12 feet on one  side unless  property  abuts public  alley Minimum Rear Yard 20 feet 20 feet 20 feet 12 feet unless  property  abuts public  alley Maximum Height 35 feet 35 feet Maximum Lot Coverage 40 percent 40 percent 50 percent None  Minimum Lot Area for Dwelling Units Minimum Lot Area for None None None Nonresidential Minimum Lot Width None None None See Section 22-257 Minimum Front Yard None* None* 50 feet* Minimum Side Yards 12 feet on the 12 feet on one 25 feet side unless side unless property property abuts a public abuts a public alley* alley* Minimum Rear Yard 12 feet, unless 12 feet, unless 25 feet except property property where prop- abuts public abuts public erty adjoins a alley alley railroad Maximum Height None None None Maximum Lot Coverage None None None NOTE: Setbacks shall be determined by measuring as follows: The right angle distance from the property line to the nearest wall. When any portion of a building (such as patio covers, porches, etc.) have roofs supported by columns, the column line shall be considered the same as the wall line. In any case whenever the roof overhang is more than four (4) feet, the setback will be measured to a point four (4)  feet inside the outer edge of the roof nearest to the property line. * On streets having special setbacks, the special setbacks shall be required. ** This change became effective January 1, 1983. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  (Code 1958, § 24-8.04; Ord. of 2-28-72; Ord. of 7-12-82)   Section 22-182 Architectural standards for commercial buildings Architectural styles should be consistent with the character of architectural styles found within the City of Thomasville as listed in the City of Thomasville Commercial Design Guidelines, to the extent deemed applicable by the Architectural Review Board. The following architectural standards shall be applied to all new commercial buildings within the City of Thomasville, excluding designated industrial areas, and shall be applied to development and redevelopment: (a) Exterior finish material on every facade facing a public right of way and 30 percent on the remaining facades shall be limited to stone, brick, stucco, synthetic stucco, pre-cast concrete, clapboard siding, textured block, and wood shingles. (b) No blank facades are permitted for all facades facing a public right-of-way. All building facades facing a public right of way shall have glazed areas or areas of glazed appearance and openings of at least 20 percent and no more than 75 percent of the facade area. The Planning Department is authorized to allow a variance up to 5% of the required glazed, glazed appearing, and opening façade area. The glazed and glazed appearance areas, and openings shall meet the following requirements: (1) Storefronts shall be directly accessible from the sidewalk and shall have glazed areas no more than ten feet from the ground, equal to a maximum of 75 percent of its primary facade area. (2) Windows shall be recessed a minimum of two inches from the exterior face of the façade except when clapboard siding is used on the facade. (3) Multiple windows in the same rough opening shall be separated by a minimum of a two inch wide post and sit on one continuous sill. (4) All visible building facades shall have a Typical Window. It is recommended that the typical window be rectangular and vertically oriented or square in proportion, but may include side or fan lights. Once a Typical Window is designated, any window, which is not typical shall be considered an "Accent Window." The primary facade shall have no more than three (3) Accent Windows. All other visible facades may have up to five (5) Accent Windows. An Accent Window may not be larger in area than four times a Typical Window. Sidelights and fanlights abutting a door shall not be considered as separate windows. (5) If shutters are used, they shall be sized to match the opening, and be provided for all windows on a given wall. (6) If security bars are used, they shall be located on the interior of the structure and designed in such a manner so they appear as muntins in a divided light window. Mesh and chain link are not permitted to cover openings. (c) Mechanical systems, backflow preventers, television antennae, satellite dishes and communication devices shall be screened from view by landscaping or built elements designed as an integral part of the building architecture. (d) Any building constructed as new Development or Redevelopment as defined in Section 22-6 is required to have a symmetrical pitched roof with a slope of no less than 5:12. Any building constructed as new Development or Redevelopment as defined in Section 22-6, which utilizes a barrel tile roof shall have a symmetrical pitch of no less than 3:12. Any building with a roof pitch of less than 5:12, whether new Development or Redevelopment, with the exception of one which utilizes a barrel tile roof, shall utilize a parapet or false mansard of no less height than necessary to obscure the roof line from view of the public right of way and no more than six (6) feet in height as measured from the bottom of the parapet or mansard or no more than the maximum height as permitted under Section 22-181 for the zone in which the building is constructed. (e) Architectural details such as texture, pattern, color, and building form used on the front facade should be incorporated on all visible building facades, but does not apply to any facade facing service courts or other areas generally not visible to the public. (f)  In order to avoid “cookie cutter” style buildings and in recognition of the fact that corporations  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  have available a minimum of two design options, individual “corporate image” architectural design elements and colors shall be incorporated only as secondary elements to the buildings and not as the dominant element. (g)  No fencing in any commercial and manufacturing zones shall exceed seven (7) feet in height. A list of approved fencing materials is maintained in the Planning Department. Chain link fencing will only be permitted in the rear setbacks and must be coated. (h) All awnings shall be consistent with the architecture of the building. Signs displayed on awnings shall comply with the City of Thomasville Commercial Design Guidelines. (i)  To the fullest extent possible, all utility connections including, but not limited to, electric and phone shall be placed underground. (2005 (22-182], Amended, 05/12/2005; 22-182 (8-13), Renumbered-Reletter, 04/22/2005, changed numbered sections starting with (8-13) to lettered sections (c) -(h) for consistency of format; 20-182(a), Amended, 02/14/2005; 2004 (22-182), Amended, 12/13/2004; 20-182, added, 07/26/2004)   Section 22-183 Procedural requirements for approval of permit Detailed architectural renderings demonstrating compliance with the architectural standards may be submitted for review along with the site plan checklist and site plans to the Planning Department. They shall be drawn to a minimum scale of 1” = 20'-0" (1/20"). If not submitted previously, the applicant shall submit the detailed architectural drawings at the time of submission of the building plans for plan review for building permit approval. No plans shall be accepted without drawings in sufficient detail to allow Planning Department staff to assess compliance with the architectural standards of this division. No building permit shall be issued until the Planning Department has determined that the building plans are in compliance with the architectural standards of this division. (2005 (22-183), Amended, 05/09/2005, added)   Section 22-184 Appeals and variance requests. It is the intent of the City Council that all development and redevelopment shall conform to the standards set forth in this division. If modifications are required any person, firm, group or organization may apply for relief from the requirements set forth in this division to the Architectural Review Board, unless otherwise specified in this division. An appeal of a decision made by the Planning Department for this division or a request for a variance from these architectural standards can be heard by the Architectural Review Board. Any such application shall be accompanied by the necessary information in order for the Architectural Review Board to make a determination whether the alternate design proposal meets the intent of the requirements. The Architectural Review Board, as part of an approval of the variance request, may include conditions, modifications, or requirements necessary to mitigate the impact of such variance. See Article XV, Divi s ion 22 -435 through 22-444 for Board governance, policy, and procedures. (2005 (22-184, Amended, 05/09/2005, added)   Article VII  Development Standards Division I-A Planned Unit Development   Section 22-185 Purpose and Intent This code section provides the procedures and minimum requirements for a PUD Conditional Use approval to implement the goals of development and redevelopment, preserving the natural environment, encouraging high quality development through innovative design and ensuring adequate access to facilities and services. It is intended that development in a PUD district be superior to that which would occur under conventional zoning regulations. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  Developments occurring under this code section should: A. Have unique, flexible, creative and imaginative arrangements and mixes of land uses in site planning and development where the various land uses are complimentary to each other B. Develop tracts of land as single developments that promote self-contained communities including residential uses and civic, educational, recreational and/or other public and private facilities. C. Preserve the natural amenities of the land through maintenance of conservation areas, open spaces and recreational facilities (i.e. baseball fields, soccer fields, gymnasiums…) D. Provide for the more efficient use of land through clustering and other flexible, innovative development arrangements that will result in smaller networks of utilities and streets thereby lowering development costs and housing/commercial costs E. Provide for a more desirable living environment than would be possible through the strict application of conventional requirements F. Provide for slightly higher gross and net development densities and intensities as an inducement to develop in a manner consistent with the purposes of this ordinance G. Ensure that the designs of building forms are interrelated and architecturally harmonious   Sec. 22 -186 Definitions Development Plan means a to – scale drawing of single and/or multi-family residential, institutional, office, commercial or industrial development, or some combination thereof, showing the general layout of a proposed development including among other features the location of buildings, parking areas, buffers and landscaping and open/recreational spaces. The development plan and related information form the basis for the approval or disapproval of the development of a PUD. Planned Unit Development means a form of development characterized by a unified site design for a number of housing units, clustered buildings, common open / recreational spaces and a mix of building types and land uses. Sec. 22 -187 Permitted Locations and Uses Planned unit developments shall be permitted in all zoning districts excluding R-1A. Any use may be permitted in a PUD if said use is shown on the Development Plan and referred to in the PUD application and approved in accordance with this ordinance. The permitted uses of property located in a PUD shall be proposed by the applicant and approved at the time the PUD application is approved if the proposed uses are consistent with the comprehensive plan and meet the criteria for approval specified in this code section. The Planning & Zoning Commission, in recommending approval of any PUD, may designate the maximum height, floor area and/or other restrictions on the development of such uses. Sec. 22-188 Requirements A. Dimensional - A planned unit development may depart from strict conformance with the required dimensions, setbacks, area, height, bulk, use and specific content regulations of the city’s land use regulations to the extent specified in the PUD application if approved, so long as the PUD provides tangible benefits in the form of provisions of open / recreational space, amenities, superior design, etc. Said benefits must be identified in accordance with the Community Benefit Statement as provided for in this ordinance. Departure from any requirements specified in this ordinance and other city regulations is a privilege and shall be granted only upon approval by the City Council after review and recommendation by the Planning & Zoning Commission. A PUD development plan shall not have to follow the regulations for the zoning district in which the development is located, unless otherwise provided in this code section. There shall be no requirements for minimum lot size, minimum lot width, lot coverage, yards and building setbacks or  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  height requirements that apply to a PUD unless said requirements are specified by Planning & Zoning or Mayor & Council at time of approval. Dimensional requirements shall be as proposed by the applicant and recommended for approval by the Planning & Zoning Commission during the PUD application plan review process. B. Minimum Open Space - A minimum of twenty (20) percent of the total land area included within the PUD shall be open / recreational space, including active or passive recreation. This requirement can include open land which is otherwise unbuildable (i.e. floodplains and wetlands) so long as the applicant proposes appropriate improvements to these areas such as trails, ball fields... Proposed PUDs within 1/4-mile radius of an existing City of Thomasville Park may calculate the existing park acreage in complying with this code section so long as the applicant proposes direct pedestrian access to the park being utilized in complying with this code section. In no case shall the level of service for the existing park fall below 2 acres per 1,000 persons within a ¼ mile circumference around park. This calculation shall be provided by the applicant at the time of the pre-application conference. Said pedestrian access shall comply with City of Thomasville standards for sidewalk construction. Where existing sidewalks provide access to and from the PUD, applicant shall review the City of Thomasville Sidewalk Inventory, a copy of which is on file in the Planning Department, and propose improvements where the Sidewalk Inventory identifies “no sidewalk” or “needs improvement”. Logical termini shall be proposed by the applicant in the PUD application and approved by the Planning & Zoning Commission. Pedestrian scale streetlights shall be proposed by the applicant along the pedestrian corridor linking the PUD to the Park. It is defined, unless otherwise approved by the Planning & Zoning Commission, that the pedestrian corridor extends through the PUD at its widest width and connecting to the park. C Density - The minimum allowable density for residential components of PUDs shall be six (6) dwelling units per gross acre of land devoted to residential uses. Within any PUD, a minimum of 30% of the total development site (excluding non-developable lands such as wetlands and floodplains) shall be designated on the Development Plan as residential use. Sec 22-189 General Considerations for Land Use Mix and Design A. Comprehensive Plan - Uses within the PUD shall be predominantly in accordance with the use recommendations and policies of the comprehensive plan. B. Housing Unit Diversity - Where appropriate, the PUD should provide for more than just one type of dwelling unit, such as townhouses, duplexes and multi-family dwellings in addition to or in lieu of detached, single family dwellings. Multi-family dwellings should comprise at least twenty (20) percent, but no more than sixty (60) percent of the total dwelling units within the PUD without explicit approval from the Planning & Zoning Commission. In PUDs designed for post-secondary educational uses with limited quasi-public facilities, multi-family dwelling units are to be construed as dormitories and may comprise one hundred (100) percent of the dwelling units and shall be excluded from the housing affordability component prescribed in this ordinance. All PUDs shall contain a housing affordability component. A minimum of ten (10) percent of the dwelling units shall be reserved for those whose household income is between eighty (80) percent and one hundred twenty (120) percent of the area median income as defined by the most recent U.S. Census or other approved source. The exterior of these dwelling units shall be composed of similar materials and design and shall be indiscernible from all other dwelling units within the PUD. In areas where a PUD is proposed that contains existing housing, a housing survey must be completed prior to submittal of a formal application. The housing survey must include all existing structures within the area to be designated as a PUD. The housing survey should include property address and year of construction. For structures and dwelling units aged 50 years or more, photo documentation of all sides of the structure and/or dwelling unit shall be provided, bounded in a booklet titled “Proposed PUD – Historic Structures & Housing Survey”. For each photo documented structure and dwelling unit, The  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  Chief Building Official shall provide an assessment identifying each structure and dwelling unit as Standard, Substandard, Dilapidated or Deteriorated as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development. The Proposed PUD – Structures & Housing Survey shall then be delivered to the applicant who shall conduct an assessment by a qualified person skilled in historic preservation and tasked in determining contributing and non-contributing structures and dwelling units. Those structures and dwelling units identified as contributing and standard or substandard shall be identified on the Concept & Development Plan and shall be reserved for rehabilitation (existing lot sizes can be altered to reflect the typical lot size of the proposed development). It is the intent of this code section to promote the preservation of Thomasville’s historic homes. However, should the cost of rehabilitating those structures and/or dwelling units, based on a submitted feasibility study, be determined to be cost prohibitive, a sign shall be posted in a conspicuous location on site, visible from the public rights of way, for a minimum of 30 days stating the following: “This home is a contributing structure / dwelling unit within a proposed PUD. Rehabilitation of this structure has been determined to be cost prohibitive based on a feasibility study. The feasibility study is on file in the Planning Department of the City of Thomasville. This structure / dwelling unit is slated for demolition or removal unless written notice is provided to the City of Thomasville Planning Department indicating your intention to purchase and rehabilitate according to the standards prescribed for this PUD or your intention to purchase and remove this structure / dwelling unit from this site within thirty (30) days of submission of your written inquiry.” For structures within a historic district, treatment of those structures shall be in accordance with the existing City of Thomasville Historic Preservation Ordinance. C. Civic, Educational and Institutional Uses - PUDs shall contain sites for, residential uses and at a minimum, at least one of the following: church, educational facility, community or club buildings and/or similar public or quasi-public facilities. D. Retail Component - Retail trade establishments and personal service establishments shall be located in careful relation to other land uses within and outside of the proposed development. Such uses need to be scaled and designed to/for the pedestrian and to the PUD itself. Appropriate hardscape and landscape elements shall be proposed which complement and enhance the relationship between the residential and non-residential uses within and outside but adjacent to the PUD. The amount of land in a PUD devoted to retail trade and personal service establishments shall be a minimum of five (5) percent but not exceed thirty (30) percent of the total site area of the development. In PUDs devoted primarily to educational uses, the retail component may include concession stands, laundry facilities, vending areas and other retail uses such as a student bookstore, student cafeteria or private or public daycare center or other use proposed by applicant that could reasonably be considered a retail or personal service establishment. E. Industrial Uses - Industrial uses are not typically considered to be appropriate for inclusion within PUDs; however, such uses are not prohibited and may be considered appropriate and desirable uses in PUDs consisting of twenty (20) acres or more where living and working areas need to be proximate to one another, subject to separation and landscape / screening requirements to ensure that landscape and hardscape elements compliment and enhance the relationship between the residential and non-residential uses. F. Interconnectivity - All new streets within the proposed PUD shall contain a travel lane(s) of no more than 12’ for one-way traffic and no more than 24’ for two-way traffic. All streets, existing or proposed, shall include curb and gutter, a minimum of 2’ wide grass strip between the curb and sidewalk and a minimum of a 4’ wide sidewalk. Crosswalks shall be appropriately defined. Painted crosswalk sections do not constitute appropriately defined crosswalks. Streetscape elements such as street trees, pedestrian oriented lighting and decorative traffic signs (including street names) shall be provided for all streets within the PUD. Traffic signs including, street names, yield and stop signs should be located on a shared, decorative pole. While pedestrian oriented lighting is encouraged along all pedestrian facilities, at a minimum, decorative street lighting is required at all street intersections or along the entire  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  street/pedestrian section. It is preferable that street lighting be solar powered. It is preferable that traffic signs be co-located on decorative, pedestrian oriented light poles on all corners of the intersection. Renderings of typical traffic signs, crosswalk sections and street lighting shall be provided with the Concept & Development plan submitted for approval. A typical street section detail shall be provided with the Concept & Development plan submitted for approval. G. Landscape Elements - A landscape plan shall be proposed and submitted for approval prior to issuance of a building permit. At the time of the PUD application, the applicant must provide a written statement identifying the general guidelines for landscape installation for each type of use proposed in the PUD (residential, commercial, retail…) and provide a general rendering of the proposed landscape for each type of use (residential, commercial, retail…). The general rendering provides for a visual representation of what the written statement would provide for. The written statement should identify the general dimensions of proposed buffers and landscape requirements for all land uses. The general rendering shall graphically illustrate the dimensional requirements and landscape elements identified in the written statement. The landscape plan submitted prior to the issuance of a building permit shall be in substantial compliance with the written statement and general renderings depicting the proposed landscape at the time of the PUD approval. Native species and non-invasive plants are permissible. Where feasible, existing trees shall be preserved. It is the intent of this code section to promote the use of native species and reduce water usage for landscaped elements. Non-native species shall be watered by an automated watering system. All watering systems shall be required to have a rain sensor. The use of invasive plants is prohibited. H. Signs - Typical sign plans and/or sign standards showing maximum widths and heights and construction materials shall be proposed by developer and approved inclusive with the PUD approval. A written statement identifying the sign dimension and construction materials shall be provided and rendering graphically illustrating the written statement shall be provided at the time of PUD approval. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, detailed construction drawings shall be provided and said drawings shall be in substantial compliance with the written statement and rendering provided at the time of the PUD approval. Sec. 22-190 Application Requirements An application form for PUD – Conditional Use approval, and the fee schedule for filing an application for PUD – CU, shall be on file in the administrative office of the City of Thomasville Planning Department. Fees are due and must be paid at the time a formal application is submitted. All applications for PUD shall contain the following: A. Concept & Development Plan - Applications shall include a Concept and Development plan which unless specifically stated otherwise shall be a condition of PUD approval. A Concept Plan shall be presented at a pre-application conference with the City Planner to discuss the proposed PUD application. The Concept and Development plan shall include: 1)   A graphic representation of existing topography, major vegetative growth, floodplains, significant water bodies, landfills, rock outcroppings and areas of historic significance. This representation can be an aerial photograph of the site. If required, the Historic Structures & Housing Survey must be submitted. 2) The Concept & Development Plan shall provide for a delineation of the proposed uses of land including numbers and types of structures on each proposed use of land (residential, commercial, retail, open spaces…). The plan shall illustrate the general conditions of the site including street grid layout and points of access to the site. The plan shall also identify proposed parking areas. This plan shall be consistent the density requirements and dimensional requirements set forth in this code section. The applicant shall also provide a statement regarding the identification of housing unit diversity and affordability requirements. 3) A statement and analysis demonstrating the manner in which the proposed development will result  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  in a more efficient and desirable development than could be accomplished by the use of conventional zoning categories and a statement regarding the PUD’s consistency with the Comprehensive Plan and Future Land Use Map. 4) Statements relating to proposed restrictions, agreements or other documents indicating the manner in which any land intended for common or quasi-public use but not proposed to be in public ownership will be held, owned and maintained in perpetuity for the indicated purpose. 5) A list of proposed development standards consisting of landscape / hardscape improvements, lot area or size, yard setbacks, lot widths at building lines, building heights, maximum lot coverage of buildings and structures, proposed development standards such as distances between all structures and buildings and parking requirements. 6) Such other material as the applicant may consider of importance in the evaluation of the plan. 7) The applicant shall, prior to approval of the PUD, present firm evidence of the unified control of the entire area within the proposed PUD district. B Architectural Elevations - Applications shall include perspective front, side and rear elevation drawings of representative building types. The intent of this section is not to provide a detailed architectural rendering; rather these drawings shall indicate general architectural characteristics (typical construction materials and façade elements). Any elements identified in a rendering must be included in construction. If the PUD is approved, general architectural elements identified as part of the application shall be considered binding unless specifically noted otherwise in the approval. The intent of this section is to provide an illustrative, conceptual example of general building characteristics and is not intended to be an architectural plan. At a minimum, appropriate design guidelines and renderings should be provided. C. Land Uses and Development Summary - The application shall include a list of all land uses, as shown on the Concept & Development plan, proposed to be included in the PUD, the total land area devoted to each of the land uses proposed, the percentage of the land area within the PUD devoted to each proposed land use, the number of residential units by type and density, and the estimated maximum square footage of all buildings in the PUD. All building plans submitted for permit approval shall be in substantial compliance with the building square footages identified in the Land Use and Development Summary. Deviations from these shall be approved by the Planning & Zoning Commission. In addition, the application shall contain a development schedule indicating the approximate dates for beginning and completing the project, or each phase if the development is to be phased, and the extent of development and types of land uses in each phase. Such phasing shall be identified on the Concept & Development plan. PUD’s established primarily for post-secondary educational use may have unique development circumstances that inhibit the ability to establish a development schedule. Such circumstances shall be identified during the application process and explained to the Planning & Zoning Commission. At a minimum, the development phasing shall be identified in terms of construction priorities. D. Performance Standards Comparison - The application shall contain all minimum dimensional requirements that are proposed to apply within the PUD, including minimum lot sizes, minimum lot widths, maximum lot coverage, front side and rear yards and building setbacks, maximum heights and landscape / hardscape requirements. Such proposed performance standards shall be presented in a table and in written text accompanying the application that shows the proposed lot, height, coverage and other dimensional standards in relation to the performance standards required for the underlying zoning district or districts in which the PUD and subject property is located. E. Improvement Requirements Comparison - The application shall contain descriptions of improvements to be constructed within the PUD, such as but not limited to street types, right of way widths, sidewalk locations and dimensions, and other improvements such as lighting, landscapes and hardscapes including open / recreational spaces. Such proposed improvements shall be presented in a table and in the written text accompanying the application that shows the proposed improvements in comparison with improvements that would be required otherwise without approval of a PUD. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  F. Community Benefit Statement - The applicant shall submit a written statement identifying the relative benefits that will accrue to the community as a result of the property being developed under PUD provisions. Specific mention should be made of mix of uses included, open / recreational spaces provided, natural features retained and architectural design to be provided. This statement is a developer’s opportunity to define why the PUD proposal is superior and merits approval and how it will serve the community better than a conventional development. In determining the extent to which a proposed PUD development district would be superior to that which would occur under conventional zoning and subdivision regulations, the Planning & Zoning Commission and Mayor & Council may consider the following and any other criteria they deem appropriate:  Open Space Provides for proportional enhancements (connectivity) to existing or planned trails, parks or other recreational / open spaces in consultation with the Planning Department Environment Does not request exceptions to or modifications of environmental regulations Provides enhanced water quality controls Provides for the use of native plants Prohibits the use of invasive species Modifies proposed building footprints to accommodate existing exceptional trees or relocates said trees and plants to other on-site locations (the intent of this section is to promote creative building solutions to accommodate existing trees and plants and to re-use, onsite, existing trees and plants) Reduces impervious surfaces Clusters disturbed areas in a manner that reserves the most environmentally sensitive areas of the site that are not otherwise protected Provides pervious paving for at least 25% of all paved areas Provides for decorative lighting and landscape features Construction Construction shall comply with the codes and standards adopted by the Green Building Council Art Includes public art displays Streets Incorporates principles identified in the American Planning Association’s “Complete Streets” Provides pedestrian / bicycle facilities that connect to existing or planned bicycle routes and existing or planned parks Community Amenities Provides public or quasi – public facilities which may include ball fields, spaces for community meetings, day care facilities or other uses that fulfill an identified community need Parking In non-residential uses, parking is accommodated to the rear of a building and the building is oriented to the pedestrian Housing Provides or participates in programs to provide affordable housing Ensures the preservation and rehabilitation of historic structures Accessibility Provides for accessibility for persons with disabilities to a degree exceeding applicable legal requirements  G. Traffic Analysis - A study providing information on the existing road network and associated vehicle volumes and the effect the proposed PUD will have on the existing (or improved) road network. If traffic or roadway improvements external to the subject site are anticipated as a result of the proposed development, the applicant shall submit a statement indicating the nature and extent of those contemplated improvements. Included in said statement shall be information pertaining to what proportion of the external traffic and roadway improvements are made necessary as a result of the PUD and improvement costs provided by developer. All internal traffic and roadway improvements associated with the PUD shall be paid for by the developer. Section 22-191 Approval Procedures  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  A. Pre-application Conference - Prior to filing a formal application for a PUD, the applicant is required to confer with the City Planner in order to review the general character of the plan and to obtain information on the nature and extent of the proposed development. A concept plan illustrating the proposed elements of the PUD shall be provided by the applicant during the conference. During the pre-application conference, the City Planner and applicant shall discuss the following items required to complete an application: 1) Concept & Development Plan 2) Identification of decorative lighting elements 3) Illustration of typical street sections including an illustration of crosswalk treatments 4) Written statement and general renderings of landscape elements 5) Written statement and general renderings of all proposed signs 6) General architectural renderings 7) Land use and development summary 8) Performance standards comparison 9) Improvements requirements comparison 10) Community benefit statement 11) Traffic analysis discussion  B. Recommendation and Approval Authority - Submitted with the formal application for PUD approval, the applicant shall provide the 11 items noted above. The Planning Department shall, within thirty (30) days review the application and any appropriate comments during the pre-application conference and determine the sufficiency of information provided in regards to the requirements set forth in this code section. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete application, the City Planner shall notify the applicant that the appropriate information has been provided and shall place the PUD application on the Planning & Zoning agenda. The City Planner shall process the application utilizing the following procedures: 1) The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposal to determine if it meets the requirements of these regulations. 2) The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application and any accompanying material to other city staff for review. Staff shall prepare a professional opinion regarding: a. The verification of data shown on the application or in accompanying materials; b. The proposed development's relationship with existing zoning regulations and with the comprehensive plan; c. The compatibility of the proposed development with surrounding development; and d. Provide for an analysis of the Community Benefit Statement, Performance Standards Comparison and Improvements Requirements Comparison e. Such other factors or considerations as may be appropriate considering the merit of the proposed development. 3) Upon completion of the application procedure, the matter will be placed on the Planning & Zoning Commission agenda. All applications for PUD shall be processed and considered by the Planning & Zoning Commission and decided upon by the Mayor and Council as if the PUD applications are presented for a Conditional Use approval and shall be subject to the public hearing and notice requirements specified in this code. After review by the Planning & Zoning Commission and public hearing in accordance with the aforementioned procedures, the Mayor and Council may disapprove, approve, or approve with modifications and / or conditions, the PUD. C. Criteria for Approval - In considering and acting upon applications for PUDs, the Planning & Zoning Commission and the Mayor and Council shall consider and base their recommendation  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  and decision, respectively, on the following criteria and any other factors it may consider appropriate in reaching such a decision: 1) Consistency with the comprehensive plan 2) Assessment of the Community Benefit Statement, Performance Standards Comparison and Improvements Required Comparison 3) The character, location and appropriateness of the proposed mix of land uses 4) The extent to which the proposed architectural, landscape, hardscape and streetscape features within and adjacent to the PUD are desired and harmonious 5) The adequacy of open / recreational spaces that are included  D. Binding Nature of PUD approval - All terms, conditions, safeguards, and stipulations made or imposed at the time of approval shall be binding upon the applicant or any successors in interest. Deviations from approved plans or failure to comply with any requirement, condition, or safeguard without commission approval shall constitute a violation of this ordinance. Where a PUD project is proposed in phases and the commission finds that the development of all phases is necessary for the development of any part to be approved, the commission may require that the applicant agree to the following: 1) Proceed with the proposed development according to the provisions of the approval and the proposed development plan for the area and such conditions as may be attached to the land in the planned unit development; 2) Provide agreements, contracts, deed restrictions, and sureties acceptable to the commission for completion of the development according to the PUD approval and for continuing operation and maintenance of such areas, functions, and facilities and; 3) Bind their successors in title to any commitments made under (a) and (b) preceding. All such agreements and evidence of unified control shall be examined by the City Attorney and no PUD approval shall be adopted without a certification by the City Attorney that such agreements and evidence of unified control meet the requirements of these regulations. E. Revisions - Amendments to approved PUDs shall be permitted but governed by the procedures and provisions for approving the original PUD application. Sec. 22-192 Post Approval Requirements A. Construction Plans - Upon approval of a PUD application, the land developer may apply for construction plan approval. Construction plans must be submitted within a two-year period following PUD approval or the PUD authorization shall expire. The construction plan approval process is generally an administrative process. Applications for construction plan approval shall be made in accordance with the building permit approval process identified in the City of Thomasville code of ordinances. B. Site Plan - If not submitted and approved as part of the PUD approval process, a site plan is required prior to the issuance of a land disturbance permit or building permit. In addition, a preliminary plat is required to be submitted for review by the Planning Department if one was not submitted at the time of the PUD approval process. Upon receipt of the site plan and preliminary plat, the City Planner shall provide written notice to the applicant regarding the consistency between the site plan, preliminary plat and the Concept & Development Plan. The applicant shall revise the site plan and the preliminary plat if so needed and submit a final plat for approval. If not completed as part of the PUD approval process, a final plat is required prior to issuance of a land disturbance permit or building permit. Plat approval shall follow the process in place established and codified in the City of Thomasville ordinances. The site plan shall be scaled to 1”=20’ and shall include:  1) Be in accordance with the Concept & Development Plan to include stated development standards; 2) Include all of the information required for the submission of a preliminary and final subdivision  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  plan and/or preliminary and final plat, as set forth in the City of Thomasville Land Subdivision Regulations; 3) Include a grading plan, showing the existing topography and proposed grading of the site at contour intervals of not more than five (5) feet; 4) Show water runoff drawings, calculations, and plans for soil erosion and sedimentation control, both during and after construction; 5) Show existing vegetation, tree line, and other natural features, rock outcroppings, bodies of water and watercourses, and the hundred-year floodplain. Retention ponds shall be a decorative water feature associated within the PUD. Water levels within the retention pond shall be kept at minimum depth of 4’ and shall include a water circulation feature such as a spraying fountain. Detention ponds shall be a decorative feature integrated into the overall design of the PUD’s landscape. 6) Show location, height, ground coverage, and use of all structures and location and areas of open spaces, parking facilities and areas dedicated to public spaces. Calculations of building coverage, numbers of parking spaces, and areas devoted to open spaces shall also be indicated; 7) Show all utility service lines, and all easements and rights-of-way, existing or proposed; In PUDs proposed on undeveloped sites, all utilities shall be placed underground 8) Show adjacent highways and streets serving the site, noting centerlines, widths of paving, grades, and median break points; a. Show the location of all roads, streets, driveways, parking facilities, loading areas, points of access surrounding streets, and pedestrian walks and pathways; b. Statement to the Planning & Zoning Commission that prior to the issuance of a building permit, the applicant will provide building plans showing the architectural layout for all floors and architectural elevations for review and approval by the Planning Department and submittal to the Commission should the renderings be inconsistent with the approved Concept & Development Plan. c. Show, for each residential structure, the number and type of dwelling units; d. Floor areas of all nonresidential buildings shall be shown for building permit approval. e. Contain a landscaping and screening plan, showing all man-made features and the location, size, and species of all planting materials; f. Contain an exterior lighting plan, covering all parking areas, driveways, and pedestrian ways, and including the height, number, and type of fixtures to be installed; g. Show the location of the nearest public schools, parks, and other community recreational facilities, indicating the location and use of all land to be dedicated to public use; h. Provide documents indicating in detail the manner in which any land intended for common or quasi-public use, but not proposed to be in public ownership, will be held, owned, and maintained in perpetuity for the indicated purposes; i. If a detailed site plan is one of a number of detailed site plans within a planned development, each detailed site plan shall show how it is related to and coordinated with other detailed site plans j. Contain any additional information which may be required by the commission in order to enable it to evaluate the detailed site plan. C Private Restrictions - PUDs shall have private restrictions and covenants established. These restrictions and covenants shall promote the preservation of the unique characteristics of the PUD and shall not be inconsistent with the standards approved at the time of the PUD approval. The developer shall submit to the Zoning Administrator a declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions, articles of incorporation and bylaws for the property owners or home owners association prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any structure. The declaration shall confer membership to the owner of property subject to assessment by the association, provide for voting rights in the association with suggestions for the division of power between the developer and the property owner(s) and provide for maintenance assessments, among other items. For PUD’s designed primarily for post-secondary educational use, private restrictions shall at a minimum describe the landscape and building maintenance requirements for the overall site whether or not buildings and spaces are tenant or owner occupied. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  D. Permits and Certificates - No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a building, structure or use, nor shall any excavation, grading or land disturbance applications be approved, for any PUD that has not been approved in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. The City Planner shall authorize the issuance of building permits for buildings and structures in the area covered by the approved PUD if they are in substantial conformity with the approved PUD, after improvements are installed in accordance with applicable improvement requirements, and if found to be in conformance with all other applicable regulations. The City Planner shall authorize the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for any completed building, structure or use located in the area covered by the PUD if it conforms to the requirements of the approved PUD and all other applicable regulations. After completion of a PUD, the use of land and construction, modification or alteration of any buildings, structures or uses within the area covered by the PUD shall be regulated by the approved development plan for the PUD. E. Appeals - Any person aggrieved by an interpretation or decision of the City Planner in the administration of this ordinance may file an appeal to the Architectural Review and Zoning Appeals Board (ARZA) in accordance with this code. The ARZA Board shall hear appeals related to interpretation of the ordinance and shall not hear appeals related to development standards that would change the plans approved by the Planning & Zoning Commission. Under no circumstances shall any development standard approved by the Planning & Zoning Commission be allowed an appeal. All changes to the plans approved by the Planning & Zoning Commission shall be resubmitted to the Planning & Zoning Commission for approval. Section 22-193 - 22-204 RESERVED Section 22-205D DIVISION 2. R-TH TOWNHOUSE DISTRICTS Section 22-206 Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in R-TH townhouse districts: (a) Single-family residence townhouses; (b) Accessory buildings. (Ord. of 9-22-86(1), § III)   Section 22-207 Density standards. Maximum density shall be eight (8) townhouse units per acre. New rights-of-way developed by the owner and dedicated to the city shall not be included as a part of the acreage for purposes of computing density requirements. (Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § III)   Section 22-208 Common areas. If common areas are used, the following shall apply: (a) A townhouse development allows individual lot areas which may have less than the minimum lot area for dwelling units required in the zoning district from which the townhouse zoning district was created; provided, however, that land area at least equal to the reduction in each individual lot area shall be placed in common areas or open space. (b) The land in streets, common off-street parking areas, and storm drainage detention facilities shall not be included as part of the open space or common areas requirement. However, full credit for lot  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  reduction shall be allowed for detention facilities meeting the following criteria: (1) The maximum depth of the detention facility shall not exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) feet below the existing ground elevation measured beneath the rim of the depression. (2) The detention facility shall be designed and constructed to drain completely after each rain event. (3) The detention facility shall be designed and constructed with a minimum of three to one (3:1) slide slopes. (4) The detention facility shall be grassed or sodded or both. (5) Any other unique detention facility that is designed to be usable and maintained for recreation and/or landscaping features may be allowed for lot reduction credit if approved by the city engineer to meet this intent. In addition, each two (2) square feet of existing and/or natural water surface or periodically flooded (based upon the one hundred (100) year flood contour elevation) or inundated land may be credited as one (1) square foot of land area for lot reduction purposes. Land below the one hundred (100) year flood elevation can only be substituted for one-half (1/2) of the required open space or common areas. (c) The plan for townhouse development shall provide for ownership, maintenance, and control of common areas and open space. (d) Within districts allowing townhouse development, the usable common area or open space shall be fully credited to calculations of density. (Ord. of 9-22-86(1), § III; Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § IV)   Section 22-209 Minimum design and development criteria. All townhouse developments in the R-TH zone must comply with the following standards: (a) A townhouse development shall be located on a site that measures a minimum of three (3) acres in area. (b) Each interior townhouse lot shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width. Each townhouse lot on a corner shall be at least forty-five (45) feet in width. Each interior townhouse lot that is intended to be at the end of a row of townhouses shall be at least thirty (30) feet wide. Each lot shall contain two thousand (2,000) square feet of area or more. (c) The setback from an interior side lot line shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet for the townhouse which is located at the end of a row of townhouses. A minimum setback of twenty-five (25) feet from side streets shall be maintained. Front yard setback will be no less than thirty (30) feet. Rear yard setback will be no less than thirty (30) feet, exclusive of accessory buildings. (d) An accessory building may abut an accessory building located on an adjacent lot in the townhouse district. (e) No more than four (4) townhouses shall be built in a row having the same building line. In setting forth this requirement, the city council intends to discourage the creation of long unbroken lines of townhouses. In a townhouse complex having more than four (4) dwelling units, the required minimum offset in the building line shall be three (3) feet. A row or grouping of townhouses shall not exceed two hundred (200) feet in length. (f) Not more than one (1) single-family residence shall be located on a townhouse lot. (g) A minimum of two (2) paved off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each townhouse. (h) Each townhouse lot shall have its own parking spaces with direct access to an alley or street. If parking spaces and driveways are located in the front yard of a lot, a setback of fifty (50) feet must be maintained for landscaping and other improvements. (i) The off-street parking provided for a townhouse may have direct access to a service street only if the service street has a minimum right-of-way width of thirty (30) feet. (j) Maximum height of a townhouse unit shall be thirty-five (35) feet. (k) Maximum lot coverage shall be thirty-five (35) percent. (Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § V)   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  Section 22-210 Procedure for rezoning. Prior to commencing any construction within a proposed townhouse development, an application for rezoning along with a site plan as required shall be submitted to the zoning administrator. After review by appropriate city staff, the planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing and shall recommend to the city council, approval with modification, or denial of the townhouse district rezoning request. The city council shall give final approval, shall give final approval with modification, or deny the townhouse district application, pursuant to the same procedure as required for any rezoning application as set forth in this zoning chapter. Each site plan submitted for review pursuant to this section shall be drawn to an appropriate engineer's scale and shall contain the following minimum requirements: (a) Total acreage of the entire site and the density of the project calculated by dividing the total number of dwelling units by the total net acreage excluding rights-of-way dedicated to the public and storm drainage detention facilities, except as allowed in section 22-208(b). This calculated density figure shall in no event exceed the density figure listed in the density standards of this section; (b) The approximate lot layout including lot location, size, width, depth, orientation, and minimum building setbacks; (c) The applicant must submit drawings indicating the general architectural themes, appearance and representative building types, as well as definitive covenants, easements, dedications and restrictions to be imposed on the land, buildings and structures. (Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § VI)   Section 22-211 Review criteria. In reviewing a townhouse development site plan, the city staff and the planning and zoning commission shall consider the following criteria to the extent relevant in each case, in evaluating the merits and purpose of a townhouse development. Individual lots, buildings, streets and parking areas should be designed and situated to: (a) Minimize alteration of the natural features and topography; (b) Minimize the adverse effects of noise and traffic on off-site residents; (c) Minimize the area devoted to serve motor vehicles; (d) Allow for proper and adequate access for firefighting purposes and access to service areas to provide garbage and waste collection and for other accessory services; and (e) Achieve a compatible relationship between development and the land as well as with adjacent developments and land. (Ord. of 9-22-86(1), § III)   Section 22-212 Identification on official zoning map. Any parcel approved for a townhouse site plan shall be identified on the official zoning map of the city. (Ord. of 9-22-86(1), § III)   Section 22-213 22-213--22-230. Reserved. Section 22-230D DIVISION 3. R-CD CLUSTER HOUSING Section 22-231 Permitted uses. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  The following uses are permitted in R-CD cluster housing: (a) Single-family residence cluster housing; (b) Accessory buildings. (Ord. of 9-22-86(1), § IV)   Section 22-232 Density standards. The number of dwelling units permitted in a cluster housing development is related to the zoning classification of the property being developed. The cluster housing development shall in no case exceed the following: Zoning classification Density A               One (1) dwelling unit per 15,000 sq. ft. of land R-1A              One (1) dwelling unit per 15,000 sq. ft. of land R-1B              One (1) dwelling unit per 10,000 sq. ft. of land R-1               One (1) dwelling unit per 7,500 sq. ft. of land R-2A              One (1) dwelling unit per 6,000 sq. ft. of land R-2               One (1) dwelling unit per 6,000 sq. ft. of land (Ord. of 9-22-86(1), § IV; Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § VII)   Section 22-233 Common areas. (a) A cluster housing development allows individual lot areas which may have less than the minimum lot area for dwelling units required in the zoning district from which the cluster housing zoning district was created; provided, however, the land area at least equal to the reduction in each individual lot area shall be placed in common areas or open space. (b) The land in streets, common off-street parking areas, and storm drainage detention facilities shall not be included as part of the open space or common area requirement. However, full credit for lot reduction shall be allowed for detention facilities meeting the following criteria: (1) The maximum depth of the detention facility shall not exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) feet below the existing ground elevation measured beneath the rim of the depression. (2) The detention facility shall be designed and constructed to drain completely after each rain event. (3) The detention facility shall be designed and constructed with a minimum of three to one (3:1) slopes. (4) The detention facility shall be grassed and/or sodded. (5) Any other unique detention facility that is designed to be usable and maintained for recreation or landscaping features or both may be allowed for lot reduction credit if approved by the city engineer to meet this intent. In addition, each two (2) square feet of existing and natural water surface, or periodically flooded (based upon the one hundred (100) year flood contour elevation) or inundated land may be credited as one (1) square foot of land area for lot reduction purposes. Land below the one hundred (100) year flood elevation can only be substituted for one-half (1/2) of the required open space or common areas. (c) The plan for cluster housing development shall provide for ownership, maintenance and control of common areas or open space or both. (d) Within districts allowing cluster housing developments, the usable common area or open space shall be fully credited to calculations of density. (Ord. of 9-22-86(1), § IV; Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § VIII)   Section 22-234 Minimum design and development criteria. (a) Minimum cluster housing group site size shall be three (3) acres;  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  (b) The minimum development standards for individual lot size, width and depth shall not apply if modifications or variations from these standards are shown on an approved site plan. Building setbacks may also be modified or varied except for the following: (1) Within the A, R-1A, R-1B, and R-1 districts: a. Buildings shall set back twenty-five (25) feet from any street right-of-way. b. Within a cluster housing development, the rear of a cluster housing dwelling unit will have no setback requirement and the sides of a cluster housing dwelling unit will have no setback requirement for one (1) side only; provided, however, that every cluster housing dwelling unit shall have at least one (1) side with a setback of at least fifteen (15) feet from another cluster housing dwelling unit. In addition, a cluster housing dwelling unit shall have a side setback of at least fifteen (15) feet and a rear setback of at least forty (40) feet from the property line of any adjacent property that is not developed as a part of the cluster development. (2) Within the R-2A, and R-2 districts: a. Buildings shall set back a minimum of fifteen (15) feet from any street right-of-way. b. Side setbacks for cluster housing dwelling units from the perimeter property boundary shall be as follows: 1. For a cluster group of four (4) or less dwellings, eight (8) feet each side;  2. For a cluster group of five (5) or more dwellings, fifteen (15) feet. c. The rear of any cluster housing development unit shall have a rear setback of at least twenty- five (25) feet from the property line of any adjacent property that is not developed as a part of the cluster housing development. d. Otherwise, in such districts and within a cluster development, a cluster housing dwelling unit shall have no rear setback requirements and the sides of a cluster housing dwelling unit will have no setback requirement for one (1) side only; provided, however, that every cluster housing dwelling unit shall have at least one (1) side with a setback of at least fifteen (15) feet from a side lot line; (c) Maximum building height--thirty-five (35) feet; (d) Maximum land coverage: (1) Within the A, R-1A, R-1B, R-1, R-2A, and R-2 districts, maximum land coverage shall be the same as the maximum building lot coverage listed within the development standards of the residential district, calculated by dividing the total ground coverage of the several buildings within a cluster housing development by the total lot area of the several lots and the common open space. (2) No more than sixty (60) percent of the gross land area may be covered by impermeable surfaces including, but not limited to, buildings, off-street parking and drives, tennis courts, and the like, nor by swimming pools and drainage facilities. On the remaining forty (40) percent of the gross land area, permeable surfaces may be contained within either individual building lots or common areas or within a combination of the two (2) areas. Detention facilities meeting the following criteria may be used to help achieve the forty (40) percent permeable surface requirement: a. The maximum depth of the detention facility shall not exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) feet below the existing ground elevation measured beneath the rim of the depression. b. The detention facility shall be designed and constructed to drain completely after each rain event. c. The detention facility shall be designed and constructed with a minimum of three to one (3:1) side slopes. d. The detention facility shall be grassed or sodded. e. Any other unique detention facility that is designed to be usable and maintained for recreation or landscaping features or both may be used to meet the thirty (30) percent permeable surface requirement if approved by the city council to meet this intent. In addition, each two (2) square feet of existing or natural water surface or both or periodically flooded (based on the one hundred (100) year flood contour elevation) or inundated land may be credited as one (1)  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  square foot of land area to meet the thirty (30) percent permeable surface requirement; (e) To preserve the integrity of the surrounding area, the city council may require certain screening buffers as part of the new development, all as provided for elsewhere in this chapter; (f) All cluster housing developments shall be designed so that no separate dwelling unit will be constructed on top of another separate dwelling unit. (Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § IX)   Section 22-235 Procedure for rezoning. Prior to commencing any construction within a proposed cluster housing development, an application for rezoning along with a site plan as required shall be submitted to the zoning administrator. After review by appropriate city staff, the planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing and shall recommend to the city council approval, approval with modification, or denial of the cluster housing rezoning request. The city council shall give final approval, shall give final approval with modification, or deny the cluster development application, pursuant to the same procedure as required for any rezoning application as set forth in this zoning chapter. Each site plan submitted for review pursuant to this section shall be drawn to an appropriate engineer's scale and shall contain the following minimum requirements: (a) Total acreage of the entire site and the density of the project calculated by dividing the total number of dwelling units into the total net acreage excluding rights-of-way dedicated to the public common off-street parking areas and storm drainage detention facilities, except as allowed in section 22- 233(b). This calculated density figure shall in no event exceed the density figure listed in the density standards of this section; (b) The approximate lot layout including lot location, size, width, depth, orientation, and minimum building setbacks; (c) The applicant must submit drawings indicating the general architectural themes, appearance and representative building types, as well as definitive covenants, easements, dedications and restrictions to be imposed on the land, buildings and structures. (Ord. of 12-23-96(3), § X)    Section 22-236 Review criteria. In reviewing a cluster housing development site plan, the city staff and the planning and zoning commission shall consider the following criteria to the extent relevant in each case, in evaluating the merits and purpose of a cluster plan. Individual lots, buildings, streets and parking areas should be designed and situated to: (a) Minimize alteration of the natural features and topography; (b) Minimize the adverse effects of noise and traffic on off-site residents; (c) Minimize the area devoted to serve motor vehicles; (d) Allow for proper and adequate access for firefighting purposes and access to service areas to provide garbage and waste collection and for other accessory services; (e) Achieve a compatible relationship between development and land as well as with adjacent developments and land. (Ord. of 9-22-86(1), § IV)   Section 22-237 Identification on official zoning map. Any parcel approved for a cluster housing site plan shall be identified on the official zoning map of the city. (Ord. of 9-22-86(1), § IV)   Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  Section 22-238 D DIVISION 5 TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD DISTRICT (2005 (22-238), Amended, 05/23/2005, ADDED DIVISION 5 TND)   Section 22-239 Purpose; design guidelines adopted (a) The purpose of the TND District is to create an innovative residential zoning classification that encourages a pattern of neighborhood development that will be consistent with the traditional qualities of the City of Thomasville Historic Districts and that will be compatible with surrounding residential areas of the City. The TND District is distinguished from other residential zoning districts through a unified plan for a neighborhood that includes a diversity of land uses and lot sizes, housing types and sizes to accommodate persons of a variety of stages of life in a pedestrian-oriented setting that is well integrated with City neighborhoods, parks, civic spaces, and commercial uses. The TND District results in fewer burdens on present and projected public services and utilities than would result from conventional subdivision development. (b) The TND Design Guidelines are hereby adopted and shall apply to property in the TND. A copy of the TND Guidelines shall be kept on file in the administrative offices of the City of Thomasville Planning Department. Within the TND District, design and construction of new buildings that are not in substantial conformity with the TND Design Guidelines is prohibited. In cases of a conflict between the TND Design Guidelines and the text of this Article, the text of this Article shall govern. (2005 (22-239), Added, 05/23/2005)   Section 22-240 Criteria for TND applications; program for unified control; legal instrument for permanent protection of common spaces (a) The applicant for the TND District shall demonstrate that the site development concept satisfies the following requirements: A minimum of 10 acres, with net benefit to City demonstrated by the following factors: 1. Inclusion of a variety of residential uses. 2. Creation of a community of compact scale and design, which encourages pedestrian circulation. 3. A network of connected streets with sidewalks and landscaping to facilitate convenient, efficient and safe movement within surrounding neighborhoods and business areas. 4. Design of streets, sidewalks and buildings to provide an attractive and lively streetscape that encourages pedestrian activity. 5. Creation of a design featuring amenities and accessory uses that increases the energy efficiency and self-sufficiency of the neighborhood so as to encourage pedestrian activities without undermining the basic residential character of the neighborhood. 6. Civic facilities, common space, and conditional use commercial uses are provided and are within walking distance to residents of the community. 7. Interconnected and usable open space is provided. 8. Adequate ingress and egress of vehicular traffic. 9. There are adequate provisions for community facilities such as water, sewer, recreation and open space. (b) Program for unified control Each applicant for the TND District shall provide evidence of the unified control of the entire parcel. During the development process, more than one builder may participate in the development of the approved plan so long as each parcel of land remains subject to all of the terms and conditions of the plan approved by the City Council for the property as a whole. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  (c) Legal instrument for permanent protection of common spaces and open space The common spaces shall be protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument that is recorded with the deed. The instrument shall be one of the following: 1. A permanent conservation easement in favor of either: a. A land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-profit organization with legal authority to accept such easements with a third party right of enforcement in the City. The organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence, and the conveyance instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for transfer in the event the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or b. A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals compatible with the purposes of this Zoning Ordinance; if the entity accepting the easement is not the City, then a third right of enforcement favoring the City shall be included in the easement; or 2. As set forth in O.C.G.A. § 44-5-60(c) as hereinafter may be amended, a permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in favor of a governmental entity; or, 3. An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, if approved by the City. The instrument for permanent protection shall incorporate restrictions on the use of the open space contained in this Article, as well as any further restrictions, as approved by the City Council. Membership in a property owners’ association shall be mandatory for all property owners within the development. (2005 (22-240), Added, 05/23/2005)   Section 22-241 Phasing of projects Development within the TND District may be phased. In all cases where a project is to be phased, each phase of the project shall contain the required streets, access, sidewalks, parking spaces, common space, recreation space, trees, landscaping and utilities required for that phase unless specifically approved by the Planning Department subject to a Developer Agreement approved by City Council. (2005 (22-241), Added, 05/23/2005)    Section 22-242 Permitted uses; additional accessory uses authorized; prohibited uses (a) Within the TND District all principal, accessory and conditional uses shall be as authorized in Section 22-242 and 22-249 provided that they are in conformity with the TND Design Guidelines. Single-family detached dwellings shall be in conformity with Figures 1 and 2 of the TND Design Guidelines and single- family attached dwellings shall be in conformity with Figure 3 of the TND Design Guidelines. (b) Detached accessory units (maximum 900 square feet) or accessory dwelling units are authorized uses subject to the following standards: 1. One unit is allowed by right for any single-family detached dwelling. 2. An accessory unit shall be owned by the owner of the principal dwelling. 3. An accessory unit shall be no larger than 50 percent of the floor area of the principal dwelling. 4. An accessory unit may be in a separate structure, attached to the principal structure, or located above a garage. 5. If in a separate structure or located above a garage, the building containing the accessory unit shall have a height no greater than the height of the principal dwelling, 6. An accessory unit shall provide at least one additional parking space. 7. Architectural style shall be compatible with the principal unit: same type of building materials, similar roof pitch, and similar types and sizes of windows. (c) Prohibited Uses 1. All uses not specifically listed herein or authorized in Section 22-106, are prohibited in the TND District, subject to interpretation of definition of uses by the Planning Department. 2. All outdoor storage not contained in accessory units is  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  prohibited. (2005 (22-242), Added, 05/23/2005)   Section 22-243 Property development standards (a) Density: Except as provided in 22-239 (c) of this Article, development in a TND District may not exceed a gross density of 8.0 dwelling units per total acreage of land. Accessory uses and structures are not included in density calculations. (b) Common Space: 1. Minimum common space: 20 percent for each TND development. 2. Each common space area must comprise an area of at least 10,000 square feet. 3. A minimum of 50 percent of common space shall be used for passive parks, greenways, trails, squares or greens. 4. No more than 20 percent of required common space may be areas of impervious surface, including but not limited to pools, paved trails, community center, picnic pavilions, gazebo, or recreational courts. 5. No dwelling unit shall be more than 1,000 feet from a public park or common space. 6. Single-family attached residences must be adjacent to, or directly across the street from a common space such as a public park, green or square. 7. A system of pedestrian pathways consisting of sidewalks or trails shall be provided linking each lot containing one or more dwelling units to at least one common space  (c) Density bonus: Developments that contain more than 20 percent common space required in paragraph B of this subsection are permitted an increase in the maximum residential density in accordance with the following:  PERCENTAGE OF COMMON SPACE AUTHORIZED BONUS DENSITY  21-25 percent 5 percent 26-30 percent 10 percent 31-35 percent 15 percent 36-40 percent 20 percent over 40 percent 25 percent   (d) Front yard setback: Minimum 15 feet; maximum 25 feet, except that front-facing garages shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from right of way line. (e) Building height: maximum 3-stories, except that no building shall have a height that is more than 10 feet greater or lesser than the buildings on abutting properties. (f) Maximum ground floor area, per building: 5,000 sq. feet gross floor area  (g) Building length: maximum 200 feet. (h) Minimum spacing between detached buildings: 15 feet. (i) Land Use Mix: Each TND development shall include a mix of land uses, as follows:  Land Use Percentage of total net land area Minimum Maximum  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17  Single-family residential 80% 100% Conditional commercial 0% 10% Civic 0% 20%  Net land area: the total land in the development minus common space  (j)   Mix of Housing Options: A diversity of housing types is encouraged. Each TND development shall include a minimum of 20 percent of the total number of lots in each of at least 3 of the lot size categories as follows: 1. Single-family detached dwellings on large lots (> 12,000 sq. feet) 2. Single-family detached dwellings on mid-size lots (9,001 - 12,000 sq. feet) 3. Single-family detached dwellings on small lots (6,001 – 9,000 sq. feet) 4. Single-family attached or zero lot-line dwellings (2,500 – 6,000 sq. feet) (Minimum lot size 2,500 sq. feet) Average widths of all lots in each single-family category must differ by at least 10 feet from average width of lots in all other single-family categories. (k)  Single-family detached dwellings on lots of varying sizes shall be combined on the same block as shown in Figure 4 of the TND Design Guidelines. Minimum lot size 6,000 sq. feet for single-family detached units. (l) Building types: Each development in the TND district shall have a range of building types and land uses as follows:  RESIDENTIAL BUILDING TYPE      TOTAL SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING UNITS   MINIMUM MAXIMUM Detached House 40% 100% Attached House 0% 60%   (m) House Sizes: Each development in the TND district shall have a range of house sizes as follows, with a minimum of 900 sq. feet heated living area:  HOUSE SIZE HEATED FLOOR AREA OF MINIMUM PERCENTAGE OF ALL  HOUSES IN DEVELOPMENT DWELLING UNIT  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 81 of 137  Small 900 -1600 sq. feet 20 percent Mid-sized 1601 - 2000 sq. feet 20 percent Large over 2000 sq. feet 20 percent  (n) Architectural variety: The same front elevation shall not be used twice on the same block face and shall not be used on lots that are opposite one another on the same street. (o) Principal uses in the TND District shall be located in buildings that have common architectural design elements. See Figure 2 of the TND Design Guidelines. Each principal building in the TND District must utilize at least four of the following architectural design features: dormers; bay or bow windows; separate garage; covered porch; transoms and sidelights; off-sets on building face or roof (minimum 2’-0”); a roof with a pitch greater than 8:12; columns, pillars, or posts on façade. (2005 (22-243), Added, 05/23/2005)   Section 22-244 Site development standards (a) Outdoor lighting on private lots. 1. Parking lots containing 25 or more spaces shall be properly illuminated for the safety and security of pedestrians and vehicles. 2. Lighting shall be designed to preclude light spillover on to adjacent properties. 3. Outdoor lighting on private lots abutting residential uses shall use only cut-off luminaire fixtures mounted in such a manner that its cone of light is directed downward and does not cross any property line of the site. (b) Landscaping of lots. 1. The front setback area, excluding the impervious areas, shall be planted with trees and/or a variety of shrubbery and flowering plants with a minimum of 25% in solid sod. 2. Tree preservation and replacement shall result in at least 6 hardwood trees per acre (minimum 2” caliper dbh). 3. A single species of trees may be used for no more than 25 percent of the total number of new trees planted in a development, except that designated hardwoods may comprise up to 50% of that total as long a minimum of three different species are used. 4. All landscape materials required by this ordinance shall be maintained by the property owner or property owners’ association. Such maintenance shall keep landscape materials healthy, neat and orderly in appearance and free of litter and debris. Landscape materials that die shall be replaced by the property owner or property owners’ association within 120 days of notification by the Planning Department. (c) Environmental Standards. 1. Retain natural vegetation and topography to the maximum extent feasible. 2. Maximum impervious surface cover: 40% average for the overall development (including lots, streets, and common space), with limits on individual lots, based on building type: a. 35% for Single-family residential, large lot; b. 40% for single-family residential, mid-size lot; c. 45% for single-family residential, small lot;  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 82 of 137  d. 50% for single-family attached. (d)  Parking: In addition to the parking requirements of Article 9 the following parking standards apply in the TND District: 1. The maximum number of off-street parking spaces constructed with impervious materials on any lot shall be 25. 2. Parking spaces constructed with pervious materials shall be constructed of gravel or other pervious paving materials described in Volume 2 – Technical Handbook of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual (First Edition, August 2001, or as subsequently amended) as the Porous Concrete or Modular Porous Paver Systems under the Limited Application Stormwater Structural Controls. (e) Driveways and Alleys: Driveway and alley connections to public streets shall be consistent with the following standards: 1. No residential driveways shall be permitted on arterial streets. 2. If a block contains a majority of lots less than 60 feet in width, individual lot access for that block shall be from an alley, not a public street. 3. Alleys serving four or more occupied structures shall provide a continuous connection between two public streets 4. Driveways and alleys shall not be located within 150 feet of the centerline of an intersecting collector or arterial street. 5. Driveways and alleys shall not be located within 50 feet of the centerline of a local street not in the TND district. 6. No paved alley or driveway shall be in excess of 18 feet in width without approval of the Planning Department. 7. Joint driveways shall be encouraged for adjacent properties (2005 (Sec. 22-244), Added, 05/23/2005)   Section 22-245 Public improvement standards All streets in a TND District, except for alleys, shall be public streets, and shall be designed as follows:  (a) Arterial Street (See Figure 5 of TND Design Guidelines) 1. 35-mph design speed. 2. Minimum 82 feet right-of-way. 3. Four travel lanes at 12 feet each. 4. 24-in. wide curb and gutter. 5. 5-feet (minimum) wide landscaped strip along outside curb (both sides of street). 6. 6-feet wide sidewalk outside landscaped strip. 7. Streetlights required in landscaped strip (See TND Design Guidelines, on file in the administrative offices of the Planning Department). 8. Street trees required in landscaped strip. Spaced an average of 30 feet on center. 9. Paving and base must be constructed to standards of Georgia Department of Transportation and Section 17-188(3) of the Code of the City of Thomasville. (b) Collector Street (See Figure 6 of TND Design Guidelines.) 1. 30-mph design speed. 2. Minimum 67 feet right-of-way; 3. 38 feet paved section, back of curb to back of curb. Alternate configurations: a. Two travel lanes at 12 feet each and a two-way left turn lane 14 feet wide; or b. Two travel lanes and two on-street parking lanes with curbed bulb-outs at intersections, where appropriate. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 83 of 137  (See Figure 7 of TND Design Guidelines.) 4. 24-in. wide curb and gutter. 5. 5-feet (minimum) wide landscaped strip along outside curb. 6. 6-feet (minimum) wide sidewalk outside landscaped strip. 7. Maximum street grade of 6 percent. 8. Street lights required in landscaped strip. (See TND Design Guidelines.) 9. Street trees required in landscaped strip. Spaced an average of 30 feet on center. 10. Street furniture is encouraged. (See Figure 11 of TND Design Guidelines.) 11. Paving and base must be constructed to standards of Section 17-188 (3) of the Code of the City of Thomasville. (c) Neighborhood Street (See Figure 8 of TND Design Guidelines) 1. 25-mph design speed. 2. Minimum 50 feet right-of-way. 3. 30 feet wide paved street to back of curbs (two travel lanes at 10 feet each and one 7 feet wide on-street parallel parking lane with curbed bulb outs at intersections, where appropriate) 4. 18-inch wide curb and gutter. 5. 5-feet (minimum) wide landscaped strip along outside curb. 6. 5-feet (minimum) wide sidewalk outside landscaped strip. 7. Maximum street grade: 8 percent. 8. Streetlights required in landscaped strip. (See TND Design Guidelines). 9. Street trees required in landscaped strip. Spaced an average of 30 feet on center. 10. Paving and base must be constructed to standards of Section 17-188 (3) of the Code of the City of Thomasville  (d) Alleys (See Figure 9 of TND Design Guidelines) Alleys are permitted as public or private streets providing secondary or service access, subject to the following standards: 1. Minimum width of right of way or easement: 20 feet 2. Minimum 14-feet wide paved travel lane. 3. 24 inches rolled curb and gutter. Inverted crown asphalt may be used as an alternative to curb and gutter for drainage purposes. 4. Minimum 4 feet setback from the edge of the pavement. 5. Utility easements as required by Planning Department. 6. Maximum street grade of 8 percent. 7. Paving and base must be constructed to standards of Section 17-188 (3) of the Code of the City of Thomasville  (e) Multi-use Paths (See Figure 10 of TND Guidelines) 1. No motorized vehicles, except those with less than 10 horsepower and electric motors. 2. Maximum grade of 6 percent. 3. Minimum right-of-way width: 14-feet 4. Minimum paved width of travel way: 10 feet 5. Shoulder width variable, based on topography. 6. 5 feet flare at street intersections, with ramp to street and bollards spaced 7 feet apart to block motorized traffic, except for vehicles with less than 10 horsepower and electric motors 7. Path may be constructed of impervious materials or materials as specified in Section 22-244 (d-2)  (f) Street Network Standards An interconnected grid pattern is encouraged. 1. No streets may be longer than 600 feet without an intersection with another public street. 2. Blocks that are longer than 400 feet (measured inside right of way) must be broken by an alley. Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 84 of 137  3. Average perimeter measured around right of way lines of all blocks in the development may not exceed 1,600 feet. 4. Cul-de-sacs are prohibited, except where approved by the Planning Department because of unusual site conditions, such as: steep topography, streams, lakes, floodplains, wetlands, or stream crossings, safety hazards or other unusual property development or access constraints. (g) Crosswalks 1. All intersections shall contain crosswalks that connect to sidewalks in all quadrants. 2. Crosswalks shall be demarcated either with high-reflectivity thermoplastic paint or brick pavers. (h) Street Trees 1. Street trees shall be provided in required landscaped strips adjacent to all streets. 2. Street trees shall be a minimum of 2 inch diameter breast height (dbh) at the time of planting, and be warranted by the developer for a period of 2 years. 3. Spacing of street trees and streetlight standards may be adjusted to account for driveways, utility poles, fire hydrants and other obstructions and to provide adequate visual clearance for intersections, driveways and traffic control devices. 4. No street tree or streetlight standard shall be placed within 10 feet of another tree, streetlight standard, utility pole or within 5 feet of a fire hydrant. 5. A list of appropriate large and small street trees is on file in the administrative offices of the Planning Department. 6. No more than 25 (or 50 percent of the total number, whichever is greater) of the trees installed may be of any one specie, as long as a minimum of three different species are used. 7. No more than 25 percent of the street trees used in a TND development shall be one of the small tree species. (i) Landscaping Landscape strips shall be planted with trees, grass and a variety of low, hardy shrubbery and flowering plants with mulched beds. Areas of exposed earth shall not be allowed. Landscaping shall be approved by the Planning Department. (j) Streetlights Streetlights shall be provided on all arterial streets, collector street, and neighborhood streets. Only metal halide may be used. See the TND Design Guidelines for example. Streetlights on collector and neighborhood streets shall be pedestrian scaled and be between 8 – 15 feet in height. (k) Underground Utilities for all new construction and redevelopment, utilities along public streets must be placed underground. The Engineering Department may approve an exception, if subsurface rock or other unique hardship makes such installation infeasible. 1. Water and sewer utilities shall be located in either street rights of way or easements located at the outer edge of street rights of way. 2. At the option of the City, electric, gas, telephone, and cable utilities may be located underground in easements located on the shoulders of alleys. (2005 (22-245), Added, 05/23/2005)   Section 22-246 Procedures for rezoning After the effective date of this Ordinance, rezoning application procedures for property within the TND District shall be as provided in Chapter 22, Article VII of the Code of the City of Thomasville with the following modifications:  (a) All such rezoning applications shall contain all information necessary to demonstrate that it achieves  Thomasville Municipal Code Last amended 6-21-17 Page 85 of 137  the criteria provided in Sec.22-240 of this article. (b) The Planning Department and the Planning and Zoning Commission shall review and comment on the Concept Plan as a part of making recommendations regarding the City Council’s action on the application for rezoning of the property. The review shall consider the criteria enumerated in Sec. 22-240 of this article. (c) If the rezoning application is approved by the City Council, then such rezoning shall be conditioned to the applicant’s developing in substantial conformity with the Concept Plan, including any modifications or conditions approved by the City Council pursuant to its deliberations of the application. (d) Modification of Concept Plan. 1. Minor modifications: The Planning Department is authorized to approve minor changes in a concept plan that was approved at the time of rezoning, such as minor shifting of the location of streets, easements or incidental features of the plan, provided that such minor modifications: a. Do not increase densities; and b. Do not change the outside boundaries of the development tract; and c. Do not affect any change to a condition of zoning or any deviation from the requirements of the Code of the City of Thomasville. 2. Major modifications: Any requested modification of a concept plan approved as a condition of zoning that does not meet the requirements of a minor modification in paragraph (d)1, above, shall be deemed a major modification. Major modifications in a concept plan approved as a condition of rezoning within the TND shall require a new application subject to all the requirements of Chapter 22, Article VII of the Code of the City of Thomasville. (2005 (22-249), Added, 05/23/2005)   Section 22-247 Procedures for review and approval of development Development within the TND shall be authorized subject to the procedures provided in Chapters 17 and 22 with the following modifications: (a)  Prior to approval of a preliminary plat, the applicant for preliminary plat approval shall prepare a plan and statistical summary of the distribution of land, lots, and dwellings for each phase of the development that indicates the location, acreage and percentage of common space and the location and mix of land uses, building types, housing sizes and lot sizes that demonstrate compliance with the requirements in sections 22-243 (c ), (i) (j) (l) and (m) of this Article. (b) Review of Building Plans. Prior to issuance of a building permit for any occupied structure to be located within a TND development, the builder shall provide architectural plans and elevations at a scale no smaller than 1” = 20’ that demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Article. The Planning Department shall have the authority to review and approve building plans for conformity with the requirements of this Article, the TND Design Guidelines, Building Codes, and other requirements of the Code of the City of Thomasville. (c)  Those development issues not particularly addressed within this Chapter are subject to Chapter 17 Subdivision requirements.