designed to reflect off the changeable component display. See also “Electronic message sign or center.” 29  SIGN REGULATIONS Manually activated. Changeable sign whose message copy or content can be changed manually. COMBINATION SIGN. A sign that is supported partly by a pole and partly by a building structure. COPY. Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphic elements comprising the content or message of a sign, excluding numerals identifying a street address only. DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX SIGN. A free-standing sign identifying a multiple-occupancy development, such as a shopping center or planned industrial park, which is con- trolled by a single owner or landlord, approved in accordance with Section 1009.2 of this chapter. DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign that is designed and erected for the purpose of providing direction and/or orienta- tion for pedestrian or vehicular traffic. DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces, back to back. ELECTRIC SIGN. Any sign activated or illuminated by means of electrical energy. ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER. An elec- trically activated changeable sign whose variable message capability can be electronically programmed. EXTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed outside a building. FASCIA SIGN. See “Wall or fascia sign.” FLASHING SIGN. See “Animated sign, electrically acti- vated.” FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign principally supported by a structure affixed to the ground, and not supported by a building, including signs supported by one or more columns, poles or braces placed in or upon the ground. For visual refer- ence, see Section 1003. FRONTAGE (Building). The length of an exterior building wall or structure of a single premise orientated to the public way or other properties that it faces. FRONTAGE (Property). The length of the property line(s) of any single premise along either a public way or other prop- erties on which it borders. GROUND SIGN. See “Free-standing sign.” ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign characterized by the use of artificial light, either projecting through its surface(s) (inter- nally illuminated); or reflecting off its surface(s) (externally illuminated). INTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed within a building, but not including “window signs” as defined by this ordinance. Interior signs, with the exception of window signs as defined, are not regulated by this chapter. MANSARD. An inclined decorative roof-like projection that is attached to an exterior building facade. MARQUEE. See “ Canopy (attached).” MARQUEE SIGN. See “ Canopysign.” MENU BOARD. A free-standing sign orientated to the drive-through lane for a restaurant that advertises the menu items available from the drive-through window, and which 30 has no more than 20 percent of the total area for such a sign utilized for business identification. MULTIPLE-FACED SIGN. A sign containing three or more faces. OFF-PREMISE SIGN. See “Outdoor advertising sign.” ON-PREMISE SIGN. A sign erected, maintained or used in the outdoor environment for the purpose of the display of messages appurtenant to the use of, products sold on, or the sale or lease of, the property on which it is displayed. OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN. A permanent sign erected, maintained or used in the outdoor environment for the purpose of the display of commercial or noncommercial messages not appurtenant to the use of, products sold on, or the sale or lease of, the property on which it is displayed. PARAPET. The extension of a building facade above the line of the structural roof. POLE SIGN. See “Free-standing sign.” POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign intended to advance a political statement, cause or candidate for office. A legally permitted outdoor advertising sign shall not be considered to be a political sign. PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or to a building or building surface. PROJECTING SIGN. A sign other than a wall sign that is attached to or projects more than 18 inches (457 mm) from a building face or wall or from a structure whose primary pur- pose is other than the support of a sign. For visual reference, see Section 1003. REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign advertising the sale, lease or rental of the property or premises upon which it is located. REVOLVING SIGN. A sign that revolves 360 degrees (6.28 rad) about an axis. See also “Animated sign, mechanically activated.” ROOF LINE. The top edge of a peaked roof or, in the case of an extended facade or parapet, the uppermost point of said facade or parapet. ROOF SIGN. A sign mounted on, and supported by, the main roof portion of a building, or above the uppermost edge of a parapet wall of a building and which is wholly or par- tially supported by such a building. Signs mounted on man- sard facades, pent eaves and architectural projections such as canopies or marquees shall not be considered to be roof signs. For a visual reference, and a comparison of differences between roof and fascia signs, see Section 1003. SIGN. Any device visible from a public place that displays either commercial or noncommercial messages by means of graphic presentation of alphabetic or pictorial symbols or rep- resentations. Noncommercial flags or any flags displayed from flagpoles or staffs will not be considered to be signs. SIGN AREA. The area of the smallest geometric figure, or the sum of the combination of regular geometric figures, which comprise the sign face. The area of any double-sided or “V” shaped sign shall be the area of the largest single face only. The area of a sphere shall be computed as the area of a 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  circle. The area of all other multiple-sided signs shall be com- puted as 50 percent of the sum of the area of all faces of the sign. SIGN COPY. Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphic elements comprising the content or mes- sage of a sign, exclusive of numerals identifying a street address only. SIGN FACE. The surface upon, against or through which the sign copy is displayed or illustrated, not including structural supports, architectural features of a building or sign structure, nonstructural or decorative trim, or any areas that are sepa- rated from the background surface upon which the sign copy is displayed by a distinct delineation, such as a reveal or bor- der. See Section 1003. 1. In the case of panel or cabinet type signs, the sign face shall include the entire area of the sign panel, cabinet or face substrate upon which the sign copy is displayed or illustrated, but not open space between separate panels or cabinets. 2. In the case of sign structures with routed areas of sign copy, the sign face shall include the entire area of the surface that is routed, except where interrupted by a reveal, border, or a contrasting surface or color. 3. In the case of signs painted on a building, or individual letters or graphic elements affixed to a building or structure, the sign face shall comprise the sum of the geometric figures or combination of regular geometric figures drawn closest to the edge of the letters or sepa- rate graphic elements comprising the sign copy, but not the open space between separate groupings of sign copy on the same building or structure. 4. In the case of sign copy enclosed within a painted or illuminated border, or displayed on a background con- trasting in color with the color of the building or struc- ture, the sign face shall comprise the area within the contrasting background, or within the painted or illumi- nated border. SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure supporting a sign. TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign intended to display either commercial or noncommercial messages of a transitory or temporary nature. Portable signs or any sign not permanently embedded in the ground, or not permanently affixed to a building or sign structure that is permanently embedded in the ground, are considered temporary signs. UNDER CANOPY SIGN OR UNDER MARQUEE SIGN. A sign attached to the underside of a canopy or marquee. V SIGN. Signs containing two faces of approximately equal size, erected upon common or separate structures, positioned in a “V” shape with an interior angle between faces of not more than 90 (1.57 rad) degrees with the distance between the sign faces not exceeding 5 feet (1524 mm) at their closest point. WALL OR FASCIA SIGN. A sign that is in any manner affixed to any exterior wall of a building or structure and that projects not more than 18 inches (457 mm) from the building or structure wall, including signs affixed to architectural pro- 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” SIGN REGULATIONS jections from a building provided the copy area of such signs remains on a parallel plane to the face of the building facade or to the face or faces of the architectural projection to which it is affixed. For a visual reference and a comparison of dif- ferences between wall or fascia signs and roof signs, see Sec- tion 1003. WINDOW SIGN. A sign affixed to the surface of a window with its message intended to be visible to and readable from the public way or from adjacent property. SECTION 1003 GENERAL SIGN TYPES 1003.1 General. Sign types and the computation of sign area shall be as depicted in Figures 1003.1(1) through 1003.1(4). SECTION 1004 GENERAL PROVISIONS 1004.1 Conformance to codes. Any sign hereafter erected shall conform to the provisions of this ordinance and the pro- visions of the Jnternational Building Code and of any other ordinance or regulation within this jurisdiction. 1004.2 Signs in rights-of-way. No sign other than an official traffic sign or similar sign shall be erected within 2 feet (610 mm) of the lines of any street, or within any public way, unless specifically authorized by other ordinances or regula- tions of this jurisdiction or by specific authorization of the code official. 1004.3 Projections over public ways. Signs projecting over public walkways shall be permitted to do so only subject to the projection and clearance limits either defined herein or, if not so defined, at a minimum height of 8 feet (2438 mm) from grade level to the bottom of the sign. Signs, architec- tural projections or sign structures projecting over vehicular access areas must conform to the minimum height clearance limitations imposed by the jurisdiction for such structures. 1004.4 Traffic visibility. No sign or sign structure shall be erected at the intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, nor at any location where by its position, shape or color it may interfere with or obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device. 1004.5 Computation of frontage. If a premises contains walls facing more than one property line or encompasses property frontage bounded by more than one street or other property usages, the sign area(s) for each building wall or property frontage will be computed separately for each build- ing wall or property line facing a different frontage. The sign area(s) thus calculated shall be permitted to then be applied to permitted signs placed on each separate wall or property line frontage. 1004.6 Animation and changeable messages. Animated signs, except as prohibited in Section 1006, are permitted in commercial and industrial zones only. Changeable signs, manually activated, are permitted for nonresidential uses in all zones. Changeable signs, electrically activated, are permit- ted in all nonresidential zones. 31  SIGN REGULATIONS   THE