                   Chapters Subjects 1 Scope and Administration 2 Definitions 3 Use Districts 4 Agricultural Zones 5 Residential Zones 6 Commercial and Commercial/Residential Zones 7 Factory/Industrial Zones 8 General Provisions 9 Special Regulations 10 Sign Regulations 11 Nonconforming Structures and Uses 12 Conditional Uses 13 Planned Unit Development 14 Referenced Standards       The following is a chapter-by-chapter synopsis of the scope and intent of the provisions of the International Zoning Code: Chapter 1 Scope and Administration. This chapter contains provisions for the application, enforcement and administration of subsequent requirements of the code. In addition to establish- ing the scope of the code, Chapter 1 identifies which buildings and structures come under its pur- view. Chapter 1 is largely concerned with maintaining “due process of law” in enforcing the zoning criteria contained in the body of the code. Only through careful observation of the administrative provisions can the building official reasonably expect to demonstrate that “equal protection under the law” has been provided. Chapter 2 Definitions. All terms that are defined in the code are listed alphabetically in Chapter 2. While a defined term may be used in one chapter or another, the meaning provided in Chapter 2 is applicable throughout the code. Additional definitions regarding signs are found in Chapter 10. These are not listed in Chapter 2. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” vii  viii Where understanding of a term’s definition is especially key to or necessary for understanding of a particular code provision, the term is shown in italics wherever it appears in the code. This is true only for those terms that have a meaning that is unique to the code. In other words, the generally understood meaning of a term or phrase might not be sufficient or consistent with the meaning pre- scribed by the code; therefore, it is essential that the code-defined meaning be known. Guidance regarding tense, gender and plurality of defined terms as well as guidance regarding terms not defined in this code is provided. Chapter 3 Use Districts. Chapter 3 identifies classifications for typical zoning districts and pro- vides for the application of minimum district areas, in order to regulate and restrict the locations for uses and locations of buildings designated for specific areas and to regulate the minimum required areas or yards and courts and important open-areas property. This chapter also requires coordination of the established zoning districts with approved zoning maps. Further, this chapter also contains information on the minimum requirements for conditional use areas, which includes particular considerations as to their proper location to adjacent, estab- lished or intended uses, or to the planned growth of the community. Chapter 3, along with Chapters 4 through 7 establish the criteria to classify properties into com- patible use districts. Chapter 4 Agricultural Zones. Chapter 4 identifies three divisions of agricultural zones includ- ing any area to be designated as open space, agricultural uses and land used for public parks and similar uses. After the specific zoning areas are established, this chapter provides minimum bulk zoning regulations to establish lot area, structure-to-open space density, lot dimensions, and set- back and building height requirements. For example, within an agricultural zone 2 there is a limit of one dwelling unit per 10 acres with a minimum lot area of 10 acres. Lot dimensions are required to be 400 feet wide by 400 feet deep minimum for this parcel of ground. Chapter 5 Residential Zones. The objective of Chapter 5 is to define residential uses for a juris- diction to utilize in arranging compatible land uses in order to achieve the maximum social and eco- nomic benefit for the community. This chapter identifies three divisions of residential zones including single-family, two-family and multiunit residential uses. Once the particular zones are established, provisions for the minimum bulk zoning regulations, such as lot area, structure-to- Open-space density, lot dimensions, setback and building height requirements, are indicated. For example, based on Table 502.1, a Division 2b residential lot would restrict the overall building height to 35 feet and establish a minimum front yard of 15 feet, side yard of 5 feet, and rear yard of 20 feet while requiring a minimum overall lot size of 6,000 square feet. Chapter 6 Commercial and Commercial/Residential Zones. Chapter 6 identifies four divi- sions of commercial zones, including C1, which includes minor automotive repair and automotive fuel dispensing facilities; C2, which includes light commercial and group care facilities; C3, which includes amusement centers including bowling alleys, golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses, ice skating rinks, pool and billiard halls; and C4, which includes major automotive repair, manufacturing and commercial centers. This chapter also contains two divisions of commercial/residential zones that accommodate residential uses in light and medium commercial zones (Divisions 1 and 2). Once the particular zones are established, Chapter 6 provides specific minimum bulk zoning restrictions to include lot area, structure-to-open-space density, lot dimensions, and setback and building height requirements. Chapter 7 Factory/Industrial Zones. The objective of Chapter 7 is to define factory/industrial uses for a jurisdiction to utilize in arranging compatible land uses for the social and economic wel- fare of the community. This chapter identifies three divisions of factory/industrial zones including a range of factory/industrial zones from light manufacturing or industrial, such as warehouses and auto body shops (Division 1), to heavy manufacturing or industrial, such as automotive dismantling and petroleum refineries (Division 3). Once the particular zones are established, Chapter 7 provides minimum bulk zoning regulations that establish lot area, structure-to-open-space density, lot dimensions, and setback and building height requirements. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  Chapter 8 General Provisions. Chapter 8 contains general zoning provisions along with require- ments for elements that are common to most uses recognized by this code, to include parking stall dimensions, driveway width requirements, allowable projections into required yard spaces, land- scaping and loading space size requirements. This chapter also establishes the minimum number of required off-street parking spaces for specific uses, fence height requirements specific to front, side and rear yard locations, accessory buildings and minimum separation distance requirements from accessory buildings to the main building on the same lot, maximum allowable projection encroach- ment into the required front and rear yards, and landscaping requirements for new buildings and additions and maintenance requirements for existing landscaping. Chapter 8 also provides for the jurisdiction to specifically review and approve the availability of essential services infrastructure for all new projects with a focus on sewer, potable water, street lighting and fire hydrants. Chapter 9 Special Regulations. Chapter 9 recognizes two unique uses, home office and adult- use businesses, and establishes requirements to address each based on their characteristics and potential impact related to other uses/zoning districts. With respect to home occupations, Chapter 9 contains restrictions that include maximum allowable floor area for both the home occupation and the storage for same, exterior display and patron and parking allowances. With respect to adult uses, Chapter 9 requires adult uses to obtain a conditional-use permit and contains a list of four specific location requirements for adult uses. Chapter 10 Sign Regulations. The primary purpose of Chapter 10 is to establish the regulation for the use of signs and sign structures. This chapter addresses the various sign types, provides numerous figures that show examples of general signs, roof signs, wall signs and fascia signs, and addresses the computation methodology of sign area for code compliance. Chapter 10 also contains the general provisions that apply to sign placement, maintenance, repair and removal, as well as requirements for wall, free-standing, directional and temporary signs. Chapter 11 Nonconforming Structures and Uses. Chapter 11 contains provisions for noncon- forming structures and uses regulated under this code. The primary purpose of this chapter is to ensure that existing structures and current land use practices legally established prior to the adop- tion of the International Zoning Code are allowed to be continued. This chapter also describes the criteria that a nonconforming structure or use must meet in order to be allowed to be maintained unchanged. Specific criteria is provided for the discontinuance of a nonconforming use to include vacancy and damage. Chapter 11 also describes the restrictions on enlargements and modifications to a nonconforming structure.   Chapter 12 Conditional Uses. Chapter 12 establishes the requirements for conditional uses based on the occasional need for a use not normally permitted in a particular zoning district and due to the unique characteristics and service that use provides to the public. This chapter contains requirements for conditional use permits, minimum documentation required to support a condi- tional use property, and fees. Further, Chapter 12 establishes the criteria for expiration and revoca- tion of conditional use permit and includes a provision that allows the applicant to submit an amendment to a conditional use permit. Chapter 13 Planned Unit Development. Chapter 13 identifies the code requirements for planned unit developments and describes the important role of the planning commission. The pri- mary purpose of this chapter is to permit and encourage diversification, variation, and imagination in the relationship of uses, structures, open spaces and heights of structures. It is further intended to encourage more rational and economic development with relationship to public services, and to encourage and facilitate the preservation of open lands. This chapter contains the specific condi- tions for planned unit developments, including area, uses, ownership and open space requirements. Chapter 14 Referenced Standards. The code contains numerous references to standards that are used to regulate materials and methods of construction. Chapter 14 contains a comprehensive list of all standards that are referenced in the code. The standards are part of the code to the extent of the referenced standard. Compliance with the referenced standard is necessary for compliance with this code. By providing specifically adopted standards, the construction and installation requirements necessary for compliance with the code can be readily determined. The basis for code compliance is, therefore, established and available on an equal basis to the code official, contractor, designer and owner. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” ix  This chapter is organized to facilitate locating specific standards, by listing all of the referenced standards, alphabetically, by acronym of the promulgating agency of the standard. Each agency’s standards are then listed in either alphabetical or numeric order based upon the standard identifi- cation. The list also contains the title of the standard; the edition (date) of the standard referenced; any addenda included as part of the ICC adoption; and the section or sections of this code that ref- erenced the standard. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  LEGISLATION The Jnternational Codes are designed and promulgated to be adopted by reference by legislative action. Jurisdictions wishing to adopt the 2012 International Zoning Code as an enforceable regulation governing structures and premises should ensure that certain factual information is included in the adopting legislation at the time adoption is being considered by the appropriate governmental body. The following sample adoption legislation addresses several key elements, including the information required for insertion into the code text. SAMPLE LEGISLATION FOR ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE ORDINANCE NO. AIN] [ORDINANCE/STATUTE/REGULATION] of the JURISDICTION] adopting the 2012 edition of the /nternational Zoning Code, regulating and governing the development, erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, movement, removal, demoli- tion, conversion, occupancy, use, height, area and maintenance of all buildings, structures and lots in the JURISDICTION]; pro- viding for the issuance of permits, including conditional use permits, and collection of fees therefor; repealing [ORDINANCE/ STATUTE/REGULATION] No. of the [JURISDICTION] and all other ordinances or parts of laws in conflict therewith. The [GOVERNING BODY] of the [JURISDICTION] does ordain as follows:   Section 1. That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the [TITLE OF JURISDICTION’S KEEPER OF RECORDS] of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], being marked and designated as the Jnternational Zoning Code, 2012 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Zoning Code of the JURISDICTION], in the state of [STATE NAME] for regulating and governing the development, erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, movement, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, use, height, area and maintenance of all buildings, structures and lots in the [JURIS- DICTION]; providing for the issuance of permits, including conditional use permits, and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Zoning Code on file in the office of the [JURISDICTION] are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation, with the additions, insertions, dele- tions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section 3 of this ordinance. Section 2. (Incorporate penalties for violations) Section 3. The following sections are hereby revised: Section 101.1. Insert [NAME OF JURISDICTION] Section 109.2.2. Insert [NUMBER OF WORKING DAYS] Table 302.1. Insert [MINIMUM AREAS] Section 1008.1.1. Insert [SIGN AREA] Section 1008.1.3. Insert [SIGN AREAS IN TWO LOCATIONS] Table 1008.1.1(1). Insert [SIGN AREAS IN THREE LOCATIONS] Table 1008.1.1(2). Insert [PERCENTAGE OF BUILDING ELEVATION IN THREE LOCATIONS] Table 1008.1.2. Insert [NO. OF SIGNS, HEIGHT AND AREA IN 10 LOCATIONS] Section 1008.2.1. Insert [SIGN AREAS IN EIGHT LOCATIONS] Section 1008.2.2. Insert [SIGN HEIGHTS AND AREA IN 10 LOCATIONS] Section 1008.2.3. Insert [SIGN AREAS IN THREE LOCATIONS] Section 1008.2.5. Insert [SIGN HEIGHT AND AREA IN TWO LOCATIONS] Section 1008.2.6. Insert [SIGN HEIGHT AND AREA IN TWO LOCATIONS] Section 1008.3.3. Insert [SIGN AREA, HEIGHT, PROJECTION AND VERTICAL DISTANCE IN SIX LOCATIONS] Section 1008.3.4. Insert [SIGN AREA AND VERTICAL DISTANCE IN TWO LOCATIONS] Section 1008.3.5. Insert [SIGN HEIGHT IN TWO LOCATIONS] 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” xi  Section 4. That [ORDINANCE/STATUTE/REGULATION] No. of [JURISDICTION] entitled [FILL IN HERE THE COMPLETE TITLE OF THE LEGISLATION OR LAWS IN EFFECT AT THE PRESENT TIME SO THAT THEY WILL BE REPEALED BY DEFINITE MEN- TION] and all other ordinances or parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. Section 5. That if any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this legislation is, for any reason, held to be unconstitu- tional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The [GOVERNING BODY] hereby declares that it would have passed this law, and each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared unconstitutional. Section 6. That nothing in this legislation or in the Zoning Code hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceed- ing impending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in Section 4 of this law; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this legislation. Section 7. That the [JURISDICTION’S KEEPER OF RECORDS] is hereby ordered and directed to cause this legislation to be pub- lished. (An additional provision may be required to direct the number of times the legislation is to be published and to specify that it is to be in a newspaper in general circulation. Posting may also be required.) Section 8. That this law and the rules, regulations, provisions, requirements, orders and matters established and adopted hereby shall take effect and be in full force and effect [TIME PERIOD] from and after the date of its final passage and adoption. xii 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  TABLE OF CONTENTS CHAPTER1 SCOPEAND ADMINISTRATION... 1 PART 1—SCOPE AND APPLICATION. ............ 1 Section 101 General 00... eee ee 1 102 Fees... eens 1