Windows may not be made permanently opaque by  window treatments. F. Blank Wall. Blank wall area is defined as a wall that does not include a substantial material  change; windows or doors; columns, pilasters, or other articulation greater than twelve (12)  inches in depth. Blank wall applies to both horizontal and vertical measurements and to primary  and side street facing facades, both ground and upper stories. G. Exceptions. In the historic districts, the Anniston Historic Preservation Commission may alter the  transparency requirements for contributing buildings if the proposed changes meet the design  guidelines and the intent of the zoning ordinance. VIII. PEDESTRIAN ACCESS A. General. A functioning entrance, operable during normal business hours, is required to meet the  street-facing entrance requirements. Additional entrances are permitted. B. Corner Building. An angled entrance on the corner may fulfill the street-facing entrance  requirements for both the primary and side streets. C. Entrance Spacing. For buildings over 100 feet in length on a street-facing facade in the Urban  Core and Urban Center Districts, two entrances are required on any facade that is over 100 feet in  length. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  7 IX. BUILDING ELEMENTS A. Porch. To meet the requirement, a porch must be contiguous with a width not less than fifty (50)  percent of the building facade. The porch must also be at least six (6) feet deep, not including any  steps or ramps. The porch may be covered but not fully enclosed. A porch may encroach by up  to fifty (50) percent of its depth into a required setback, but may not be closer than three  (3) feet to any lot line. A multi-family structure must have at least one porch or stoop, but is not  required a porch or stoop for each residence. Townhouses should provide a stoop or porch  on each residence. B. Stoop. To meet the requirement, a stoop must be no more than six (6) feet deep and six (6) feet  wide. The stoop may be covered but not fully enclosed. A stoop may extend by up to fifty  (50) percent of its depth into a required setback, but may not be closer than three (3) feet  to any lot line. C. Other. Other building elements, such as arcades, awnings, balconies, etc. are permitted and may  encroach into a required setback up to fifty (50) percent of their depths, but may not be  closer than three (3) feet to any lot line. D. Public right-of-way. Balconies on upper stories in the Urban Core and Urban Center districts  may encroach into the public right-of-way by up to five (5) feet as long as they are cantilevered  with no elements attaching them to the ground and the City Engineer has reviewed and approved  the plans. No other building elements may encroach into a public right-of-way. 8 I. Intent. The most compact, walkable development in the City comprises the Urban Core district. The  district also contains the City’s largest collection of historic commercial structures. The intent of the  Urban Core district is to maintain and improve the City’s historic downtown commercial area and at the same time foster adaptive reuse, redevelopment, and new construction that contribute to the vitality of the district by promoting walkability, a mix of uses, and activity in design and practice. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Urban Core Dis- trict: Sec. 4: URBAN CORE DISTRICT Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area None Minimum lot width None Building Setbacks Primary street (min) 0’ Side street (min) 0’ Side, interior (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear, alley (min) 5’ Build to Area (BTA) Primary street (min/max) 0’/5’ % of bldg in primary street BTA (min) 85% Side street (min/max) 0’/10’ % of bldg in side street BTA (min) 50% Parking Setbacks Primary street (min) 30’ Side street (min) 10’ Side interior (min) 0’ Rear (min) 0’ Abutting protected area (min) 10’ For signage requirements in the C district, see Sec. 25:   Signs, page 38. Building Height Min/max (feet) - Minimum height applies only to buildings with frontage on Noble Street be- tween 9th and 13th Streets 25’/110’ Min/max (stories) - See above re. min height 2/10 Ground Floor Elevation Commercial (min) 0’ Residential (min) 2’ Transparency Primary street ground floor (min) 50% Primary street upper story (min) 20% Side street ground floor (min) 30% Side street upper story (min) 20% Blank wall area (max) 20’ Pedestrian Access Street-facing entrance Required Entrance transparency (min) 50% Accessory Structures Primary street setback (min) 50’ Side street setback (min) 20’ Side interior setback (min) 5’ Rear setback (min) 5’ Square footage (max) 600 sf City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  9 Sec. 5: URBAN CENTER 1 DISTRICT I. Intent. The area immediately surrounding the Urban Core is the Urban Center 1 district, which accom- modates a wide variety of uses and development types. The intent of the Urban Center district is to cluster a mix of buildings, uses, and development in the areas adjacent to the Urban Core in order to  enhance the downtown area as a whole. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Urban Center 1  District: * Structures should generally align with those on adjacent properties. Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area None Minimum lot width None Building Setbacks Primary street (min)* 0’ Side street (min)* 0’ Side, interior (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear, alley (min) 5’ Build to Area (BTA) Primary street (min/max) 0’/20’ % of bldg in primary street BTA (min) 50% Side street (min/max) 0’/20’ % of bldg in side street BTA (min) 30% Parking Setbacks Primary street (min) 20’ Side street (min) 10’ Side interior (min) 0’ Rear (min) 0’ Abutting protected area (min) 10’ For signage requirements in the UC1 district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Max (feet/stories) 55’/5 Ground Floor Elevation Commercial (min) 0’ Residential (min) 2’ Transparency Primary street ground floor (min) 40% Primary street upper story (min) 10% Side street ground floor (min) 20% Side street upper story (min) 10% Blank wall area (max) 20’ Pedestrian Access Street-facing entrance Required Entrance transparency (min) 50% Accessory Structures Primary street setback (min) 50’ Side street setback (min) 20’ Side interior setback (min) 5’ Rear setback (min) 5’ Square footage (max) 600 sf 10 Sec. 6: URBAN CENTER 2 DISTRICT I. Intent. Outside downtown Anniston, these small mixed-use centers serve surrounding urban neighbor- hoods. This district accommodates a variety of uses and development types, but the centers are generally  small, sometimes occupying as little as one block. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Urban Center 2  District: O Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area 5,000 sf Minimum lot width 50’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min)* 5’ Side street (min)* 5’ Side, interior (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear, alley (min) 5’ Build to Area (BTA) Primary street (min/max) 5’/20’ % of bldg in primary street BTA (min) 50% Side street (min/max) 5’/20’ % of bldg in side street BTA (min) 30% Parking Setbacks Primary street (min) 30’ Side street (min) 10’ Side interior (min) 0’ Rear (min) 0’ Abutting protected area (min) 10’ For signage requirements in the UC2 district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Max (feet/stories) 45’/4 Ground Floor Elevation Commercial (min) 0’ Residential (min) 2’ Transparency Primary street ground floor (min) 40% Primary street upper story (min) 10% Side street ground floor (min) 10% Side street upper story (min) 5% Blank wall area (max) 20’ Pedestrian Access Street-facing entrance Required Accessory Structures Primary street setback (min) 50’ Side street setback (min) 20’ Side interior setback (min) 5’ Rear setback (min) 5’ Square footage (max) 600 sf O * Structures should generally align with those  on adjacent properties. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  11 Sec. 7: URBAN NEIGHBORHOOD 1 DISTRICT I. Intent. The Urban Neighborhood 1 district is a mixed residential neighborhood comprised primarily of  small-lot single family residences with some small multifamily buildings, small retail and office uses,  and civic sites that may exist together within the same block. The intent of this district is to expand  and diversify residential opportunities within close proximity to downtown and to foster a walkable,  mixed use neighborhood environment. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Urban Neighbor- hood 1 District: Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area 5,000 sf Minimum lot width 50’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min/max)* 10’/20’ Side street (min)* 10’ Side, interior (min) 5’ Rear (min) 5’ Rear, alley (min) 5’ Accessory Structures Primary street setback (min) 50’ Side street setback (min) 10’ Side interior setback (min) 5’ Rear setback (min) 5’ Square footage (max) 600 sf For signage requirements in the UN2 district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Primary structure - max (feet/stories) 40’/3 Accessory structure - max (feet/stories) 25’/2 Ground Floor Elevation Residential on ground floor (min) 2’ Commercial on ground floor (min) 0’ Building Elements Street-facing entrance Required Porch, stoop, or balcony (residential) Required Transparency (commercial - min) 30% Parking Setbacks Primary street (min) 30’ Side street (min) 5’ Side interior (min) 5’ Rear (min) 5’ * Structures should generally align with those  on adjacent properties. 12 Sec. 8: URBAN NEIGHBORHOOD 2 DISTRICT I. Intent. The Urban Neighborhood 2 district is a transitional neighborhood occurring at the edges of  Urban Neighborhood 1. This district consists mainly of single family residences on larger lots than UN1  with some small multifamily and civic sites. The intent of this district is to maintain and reinforce  walkable residential neighborhoods and foster the development of neighborhood services in strategic locations. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Urban Neighbor- hood 2 District: Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area 5,000 sf Minimum lot width 50’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min)* 20’ Side street (min)* 15’ Side, interior (min) 10’ Rear (min) 10’ Rear, alley (min) 5’ Accessory Structures Primary street setback (min) 50’ Side street setback (min) 10’ Side interior setback (min) 5’ Rear setback (min) 5’ Square footage (max) 600 sf For signage requirements in the UN2 district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Primary structure - max (feet/stories) 35’/2.5 Accessory structure - max (feet/stories) 25’/2 Ground Floor Elevation Residential on ground floor (min) 2’ Commercial on ground floor (min) 0’ Building Elements Street-facing entrance Required Porch, stoop, or balcony (residential) Required Transparency (commercial - min) 30% Parking Setbacks Primary street (min) 30’ Side street (min) 5’ Side interior (min) 5’ Rear (min) 5’ * Structures should generally align with those  on adjacent properties. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  13 Sec. 9: SUBURBAN CORRIDOR DISTRICT I. Intent. The Suburban Corridor district consists of areas along major road corridors primarily composed  of commercial uses that serve the broader community. The intent of this district is to foster an  environment conducive to primarily single use commercial development but also to improve the  environment for drivers, cyclists, and pedestrians alike. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Suburban Corri- dor District: Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area 5,000 sf Minimum lot width 50’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min) 5’ Side street (min) 5’ Side, interior (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear, alley (min) 5’ For signage requirements in the SC district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Max (feet/stories) 35’/3 Pedestrian Access Street-facing entrance Required Parking Setbacks/Requirements Primary street (min) 10’ Side street (min) 10’ Side interior (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear (min) 0’ or 5’ Abutting protected area (min) 10’ Max # of parallel parking aisles in front of building 4 14 Sec. 10: SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER DISTRICT I. Intent. The Suburban Neighborhood Center district is meant to allow small, mixed use centers that  primarily serve surrounding neighborhoods, but may also include higher density residential uses  integrated with nearby office, commercial, or mixed use buildings. The intent of this district is to provide  opportunities for village centers in locations that are advantageous for both surrounding neighborhoods  and transportation corridors. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Suburban Neigh- borhood Center District: Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area 5,000 sf Minimum lot width 50’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min) 5’ Side street (min) 5’ Side, interior (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear (min) 0’ or 5’ Rear, alley (min) 5’ Build to Area (BTA) Primary street (min/max) 5’/20’ % of bldg in primary street BTA (min) 50% Side street (min/max) 5’/20’ % of bldg in side street BTA (min) 30% Building Height Max (feet) 55’ Max (stories) 4 For signage requirements in the SNC district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Transparency Primary street ground floor (min) 40% Primary street upper story (min) 20% Side street ground floor (min) 20% Side street upper story (min) 10% Blank wall area (max) 20’ Pedestrian Access Street-facing entrance Required Parking Setbacks Primary street (min) 10’ Side street (min) 10’ Side interior (min) 0’ Rear (min) 0’ Abutting protected area (min) 10’ Accessory Structures Primary street setback (min) 50’ Side street setback (min) 20’ Side interior setback (min) 5’ Rear setback (min) 5’ Square footage (max) 600 sf City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  15 Sec. 11: SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD 1 DISTRICT I. Intent. The Suburban Neighborhood 1 district is primarily comprised of single family homes on lots of  varying sizes, but most lots are larger than those found in either of the Urban Neighborhood districts. Some multifamily residential exists in this district as well, but it tends to be physically separated from single family homes. The intent of this district is to provide for the protection of existing residential  neighborhoods and creation of new residential neighborhoods that are better connected to community facilities and neighborhood services and other neighborhoods. New cul-de-sacs shall not be permitted  unless demonstrated that no other street configuration will be possible. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Suburban Neigh- borhood 1 District: Sec. 12: SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD 2 DISTRICT I. Intent. The Suburban Neighborhood 2 district is primarily comprised of single family homes on lots of  varying sizes, but most lots are larger than those found in either of the Urban Neighborhood districts. There is very little multi-family residential development in this district. The intent of this district is to provide for the protection of existing residential neighborhoods and creation of new residential  neighborhoods that are better connected to community facilities and neighborhood services and other  neighborhoods. New cul-de-sacs shall not be permitted unless demonstrated that no other street  configuration will be possible. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Suburban Neigh- borhood 2 District: Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area 5,000 sf Minimum lot width 50’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min) 25’ Side street (min) 20’ Side, interior (min) 10’ Rear (min) 20’ For signage requirements in the SN2 district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Max (feet/stories) 35’/2.5 Accessory Structures Primary street setback (min) 50’ Side street setback (min) 20’ Side interior setback (min) 5’ Rear setback (min) 5’ Square footage (max) 600 sf Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area 5,000 sf Minimum lot width 50’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min) 20’ Side street (min) 20’ Side, interior (min) 10’ Rear (min) 20’ For signage requirements in the SN1 district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Max (feet/stories) 35’/2.5 Accessory Structures Primary street setback (min) 50’ Side street setback (min) 20’ Side interior setback (min) 5’ Rear setback (min) 5’ Square footage (max) 600 sf 16 Sec. 13: SUBURBAN EDGE DISTRICT I. Intent. Large lots of typically at least one acre with scattered residential development comprise the Subur- ban Edge district. Sites often feature significant natural areas. The intent of the Suburban Edge district is  to focus development into areas where there is existing infrastructure and preserve invaluable natural  features and areas. New cul-de-sacs shall not be permitted unless demonstrated that no other street con- figuration will be possible. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Suburban Edge  District: Sec. 14: INDUSTRIAL 1 LIMITED DISTRICT I. Intent. The Industrial 1 Limited district is comprised of primarily large footprint buildings intended for  light industrial development, clean manufacturing, or warehousing activities. The intent of this district is  to provide for industrial development that has little impact on surrounding properties. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Industrial 1 Limit- ed District: Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area 1 acre Minimum lot width 100’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min) 30’ Side street (min) 30’ Side, interior (min) 20’ Rear (min) 20’ Abutting protected area 30’ For signage requirements in the IL district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Max (feet/stories) 45’/4 Landscaping for Parking Areas Primary street buffer strip (min) 10’ Side street buffer strip (min) 10’ Side interior (min) 10’ Rear (min) 10’ Abutting protected area 30’ Distance between trees in buffers (max) 50’ Size of landscape islands (min) 10’x10’ Max # of spaces between landscape islands 10 Lot Dimensions Minimum Lot Area 1 acre Minimum Lot Width 100’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min) 30’ Side street (min) 30’ Side, interior (min) 10’ Rear (min) 30’ For signage requirements in the SE district, see Sec.25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Max (feet/stories) 35’/2.5 Accessory Structures Primary street setback (min) 50’ Side street setback (min) 30’ Side interior setback (min) 5’ Rear setback (min) 5’ Square footage (max) 600 sf City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  17 Sec. 15: INDUSTRIAL 2 GENERAL DISTRICT I. Intent. The Industrial 2 General district is comprised of sites generally larger than 20 acres that are the  sites for large footprint buildings intended for a range of industrial development. Industrial development  in this district tends to generate more traffic and other impacts on surrounding properties. Properties in  this district tend to be near major transportation infrastructure. The intent of this district is to provide  convenient sites for industrial development that minimize the effects on surrounding properties by ensuring development is not located in close proximity to neighborhoods or other development  that would be adversely affected by industrial uses. Furthermore, this district intends to ensure that  development that is potentially harmful to the environment or public health is located in a way to  mitigate and minimize these effects. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Industrial 2 Gen- eral District: Lot Dimensions Minimum lot area 2 acres Minimum lot width 150’ Building Setbacks Primary street (min) 40’ Side street (min) 40’ Side, interior (min) 20’ Rear (min) 20’ Abutting protected area 40’ For signage requirements in the IG district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Building Height Max (feet/stories) 45’/4 Landscaping for Parking Areas Primary street buffer strip (min) 10’ Side street buffer strip (min) 10’ Side interior (min) 10’ Rear (min) 10’ Abutting protected area 30’ Distance between trees in buffers (max) 50’ Size of landscape islands (min) 10’x10’ Max # of spaces between landscape islands 10 18 Sec. 16: NATURAL/OPEN SPACE DISTRICT I. Intent. The Natural/Open Space district is comprised of areas intended to remain in a natural state and  may include infrastructure as well as passive recreational facilities and trails. Some places in the district may be suitable for development or may have been developed but are now vacant and returning to a  natural state. The intent of this district is to preserve natural areas and open space in order to preserve wildlife habitat, improve air and water quality, and protect scenic areas and view. Furthermore, the  intent of this district is to direct development into areas most suitable for development where there are existing services, infrastructure, and connections. II. Requirements. The following dimensional and building requirements shall apply in the Natural/Open  Space District: Lot Dimensions Minimum Lot Area 10 acres Minimum Lot Width 500’ Building Setbacks Primary Street (min) 45’ Side Street (min) 45’ Side, interior (min) 20’ Rear (min) 20’ Building Height Max (Feet/Stories) 25’/2 Impervious Surface Max Percentage 20% For signage requirements in the NO district, see Sec. 25: Signs, page 38. Sec. 17: MAJOR INSTITUTION/CIVIC CAMPUS I. Intent. The Major Institution/Civic Campus district encompasses major community-serving institutions  such as educational campuses and hospitals. The development patterns for these institutions are unique  to the site and may differ significantly from their surroundings. The intent of this district is to create places for these types of uses, which are highly desirable as economic generators, but also to ensure  that these sites do little harm to surrounding districts by integrating better into their surroundings. II. Except for the development of a new public park or open space, this district is not intended to be expand- ed beyond the existing boundaries. III. General Procedure. In the Major Institution/Civic Campus district, all development is conditional based  on the submittal and approval of a development plan, reviewed and approved by the Anniston Planning  and Zoning Commission. The application and approval process is described in detail in Sec. 17: IV. IV. In order to gain approval for development or redevelopment in the MI District, the applicant shall  submit an MI Development Application to Planning and Development Services. A. A complete application shall include the following: City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  19 1. A site plan scaled to not less than 1:100 showing all proposed improvements to include  buildings, landscaping, paving, parking, sidewalks, open spaces, location of signage, etc. as  well as all information required by the Anniston Subdivision Regulations for a prelimi-  nary plat. 2. Representative drawings of all elevations of proposed structures including material call-  outs, landscaping, etc. 3. Proposed uses and/or tenants for each structure or part of a structure. 4. A master signage plan showing typical signage type, location, materials, size, etc. 5. Evidence of ownership or control of the tract proposed for development, or, if the  property is under contract or contingency, evidence of the contract or contingency. 6. Names and addresses of persons/firms/partnerships/corporations showing a financial  interest in the project. 7. A fee, which shall be in accordance with the schedule of fees established by Planning and  Development Services. B. Upon receipt of a complete application for approval, the Planning Commission shall advertise  and conduct a public hearing to determine the suitability of the proposal. C. The Planning Commission shall make a decision on the application within sixty (60) days of  receipt of the complete application. D. The Planning Commission’s designee may approve changes to approved development plans that  he or she determines to be insubstantial. Insubstantial changes are those that do not affect the  overall character of the development. E. Any changes to an approved development plan that the Planning Commission’s designee deter-  mines to be substantial must be presented to the Planning Commission for approval. Substantial changes may include, but are not limited to, changes to the design of the building or site, changes  to materials, changes to the proposed uses in a development, or changes to signage. V. Use Approval. The Planning Director may approve the use of an existing structure in the Major Institu- tion/Civic Campus District if the use is listed in the Permitted Use table (Sec. 22: Permitted Use  Table) as C. This administrative approval is only applicable to the use of the property, not any changes  to the exterior or signage, which must be approved by the Planning Commission. For signage require- ments, see Sec. 25: Signs. 20 Sec. 18: SITE REQUIREMENTS I. Protected Areas. A. Defined. A protected area is defined as any area zoned Urban Neighborhood, Suburban  Neighborhood, Suburban Edge, or Natural/Open Space. II. Driveways. The following requirements apply to all non-residential driveways. A. Alley Access. If parking areas can be accessed from an improved alley, access from the alley is  required and no new curb cuts shall be created. B. Spacing. Non-residential driveways shall be spaced according to the following list:  Right of Way Width Spacing Up to 60 feet 100’ 61 to 80 feet 200’ 81 or more feet 300’ C. Credit for Removing or Combining Curb Cuts. Whenever possible, driveways shall be consolidated  and no additional driveways or curb cuts shall be added. If a curb cut is closed, eliminated, or  combined with another curb cut, credit will be given for one (1) landscape island. The developer  may construct one (1) less landscape island than would be required. D. Corner Lots. On corner lots, access will be from the street with the lower classification. E. Width. At the edge of pavement, driveways shall be no greater than the widths established below: District Driveway Width C 12’ UC1 15’ UC2 15’ UN1 12’ UN2 12’ SC 24’ SNC 15’ SN1 15’ SN2 15’ SE 20’ IL 32’ IG 32’ MI 15’ NO 20’ F. No new driveways shall be permitted on Noble Street between 17th Street and 4th Street. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  21 II. Cross Access. Shared parking and cross access is encouraged for all non-residential, non-industrial uses. Therefore, site plans shall comply with the following: A. Cross access between abutting properties must be provided. B. A stub for future cross-access must be provided. C. The requirement for cross access may be waived if it is deemed infeasible by the City Engineer. Pedestrian access shall still be provided when cross access is waived. D. Where cross access is established, an easement allowing cross access and a joint maintenance  agreement shall be recorded. III. Other Site Requirements. A. Loading Areas and Bay Doors. All loading areas and bay doors must be located on the side or rear  of the building, and shall in no instance face the primary street in any district or the side street in  the Urban Core, Urban Center 1, Urban Center 2, or Suburban Neighborhood Center Districts. B. Outdoor Storage. Outdoor storage is permitted only in the Industrial Districts. C. Garbage/Trash Receptacles. All garbage receptacles will be screened from view with a fence of  wood, masonry, stone, or stucco. Garbage receptacles shall not be located between a building and  any adjacent street. D. Fuel and Drive-Thru Canopies. Canopies do not count as a portion of the building when calculat-  ing Build-to-Area on a primary street. E. Underground Utilities. For any new construction or substantial redevelopment (over 75% of the  site being redeveloped), all utilities located upon said site must be located underground, unless  they can be located in a manner so as not to be visible from the public right-of-way. The underly-  ing land owner shall be responsible for all cost(s) related thereto. This provision shall not apply,  however, to electric substations and/or facilities associated with the transport of electricity in  excess of 25kV. Sec. 19: PUBLIC REALM REQUIREMENTS I. Improvements Required. Where new development or substantial redevelopment occurs, the developer  shall be required to install the public realm improvements in accordance with the provisions of this section. II. Determination of Street Type. The street type to be followed shall be determined by the City Engineer and  the Planning Director on a project-by-project basis. The City Engineer and Planning Director may deter- mine that a street is of a type not listed in that district if it more closely resembles a different street  type; however, the following street types listed by district shall serve as a guide to determine the street type. The street type shall be determined utilizing the following criteria: A. Existing ROW width. B. Street classification. 22 C. Character of the public realm adjacent to abutting and nearby properties. III. Street Types Defined. Street types are defined herein for each district. Street types are the same across  different districts; this section defines the types of streets most likely to be found in each district. A. Urban Core District. 1. Urban Main Street. This type is primarily intended for Noble Street, but other streets with-  in the Urban Core or other districts may also be defined as Urban Main Streets. 2. Urban Street. This type of street is found in multiple districts. Dimensions may vary slight-  ly by district and street. Parking lane widths depend on whether parking is angled or  parallel. B. Urban Center 1 District. 1. Urban Street. See Sec. 19: IIIA2. 2. Urban Neighborhood Street. This type of street is found in multiple districts. Dimensions  may vary slightly by district and street. Parking, for the most part, is parallel. Walk and Planting 10’ Parking 8’-13’ Travel Lane 11’ Travel Lane 11’ Parking 8’-13’ 10’ Walk and Planting 72’-90’ Right-of-Way City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  23 Parking 8’ Travel Lane 10’ Travel Lane 10’ Parking 8’2’ Planting 5’ W alk Planting 2’ W alk 5’    3. Urban Boulevard. This street type is based on the cross section of Quintard Avenue in the  Urban Center 1 District and should not be applied to other streets. Dimensions may vary. C. Urban Center 2 District. 1. Urban Main Street. See Sec. 19: IIIA1. 2. Urban Street. See Sec. 19: IIIA2. 3. Urban Neighborhood Street. See Sec. 19: IIIB2. D. Urban Neighborhood 1 District. 1. Urban Neighborhood Street. See Sec. 19: IIIB2. E. Urban Neighborhood 2 District. 1. Urban Neighborhood Street. See Sec. 19: IIIB2. F. Suburban Corridor District. 1. Urban Street. See Sec. 19: IIIA2. 2. Suburban Corridor. This street type is intended for Quintard Avenue in the Suburban  Corridor District and should not be applied to other streets. Travel Lane 11’ Travel Lane 11’ Planting 5’-8’ Travel Lane 11’ Travel Lane 11’ 45’-55’ M edian Travel Lane 11’ Travel Lane 11’ W alk 5’ W alk 5’ Planting 5’-8’ Travel Lane 11’ Travel Lane 11’ Planting 5’ Travel Lane 11’ Travel Lane 11’ 25’ M edian/Turn Lane Travel Lane 11’ Travel Lane 11’ W alk 5’ W alk 5’ Planting 5’ 160’ Right-of-Way 50’-60’ Right-of-Way 160’ Right-of-Way 24    3. Suburban Street. Dimensions may vary by street. Some streets may have four travel lanes  and a median. G. Suburban Neighborhood Center District. 1. Urban Main Street. See Sec. 19: IIIA1. 2. Urban Street. See Sec. 19: IIIA2. 3. Urban Neighborhood Street. See Sec. 19: IIIB2. H. Suburban Neighborhood 1 District. 1. Urban Neighborhood Street. See Sec. 19: IIIB2. 2. Suburban Street. See Sec. 19: IIIF3. Suburban Streets in this district shall have only  two travel lanes. 3. Suburban Neighborhood Street. Dimensions may vary by street. Space may be provided for  on-street parking, but street widths should remain narrow so as to discourage speeding. H. Suburban Neighborhood 2 District. 1. Urban Neighborhood Street. See Sec. 19: IIIB2. 2. Suburban Street. See Sec. 19: IIIF3. Suburban Streets in this district shall have only  two travel lanes. 3. Suburban Neighborhood Street. See Sec. 19: IIIH3. I. Suburban Edge District. 1. Suburban Street. See Sec. 19: IIIF3. 2. Suburban Neighborhood Street. See Sec. 19: IIIH3. 3. Suburban Edge Street. Dimensions may vary slightly by street. Travel Lane 11’ Travel Lane 11’4’ Planting 5’ W alk Planting 4’ W alk 5’ 40’ Right-of-Way Travel Lane 11’ Travel Lane 11’4’ Planting Planting 4’ 30’ Right-of-Way Travel Lane 12’ Travel Lane 12’4’ Planting 4’ W alk Planting 4’ W alk 4’ 45’ Right-of-Way City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  25  J. Industrial 1 Limited District. 1. Industrial Street. Dimensions may vary by street. 2. Suburban Street. See Sec. 19: IIIF3. K. Industrial 2 General District. 1. Industrial Street. See Sec. 19: IIIJ1. 2. Suburban Street. See Sec. 19: IIIF3. L. Major Institution/Civic Campus District. In this district, streets shall primarily be urban types, but  the determination shall be made by the Planning Commission at the recommendation of the City  Engineer and Planning Director. M. Natural/Open Space District. 1. Suburban Edge Street. See Sec: 19: IIII3 2. Industrial Street. See Sec. 19: IIIJ1. N. McClellan District. Street types in the McClellan District shall be determined using the McClellan  Streets Classification map and the above street types at the discretion of the Planning Commision,  based on the recommendations of the City Engineer and Planning Director in consultation  with the McClellan Development Authority. Travel Lane 12’ Travel Lane 12’4’ Planting Planting 4’ 32’ Right-of-Way 26 Sec. 20: LANDSCAPING I. Except as otherwise specified, or as determined by any electric utility provider to endanger the safety or  reliability of its facilities, the following landscaping requirements shall apply to all districts. II. Applicability. The standards listed shall apply to all new construction and/or substantially redeveloped  parking areas, unless otherwise specified. Surface parking lots as a primary use shall be landscaped  according to Sec. 22: Footnote 13. In the case of conflict between these standards and those in a par- ticular district’s requirements, the more stringent of the requirements shall apply. II. Maintenance of Landscaping. All landscaping shall be maintained in good condition for its lifespan, and,  after its lifespan, shall be replaced with similar or better landscaping. Failure to maintain landscaping  may result in penalties as described in Sec. 38. III. Requirements. Landscaping for Parking Areas Primary street buffer strip (min) 5’ Side street buffer strip (min) 5’ Side interior (min)* 5’ Rear (min)* 5’ Abutting protected area (min) 10’ Distance between trees in buffers (max) 50’ Max # of spaces between landscape islands 10  *See V. Buffers. IV. Landscape Islands. A. Size. Unless otherwise specified, all landscape islands shall, at a minimum, be the same size as  the parking spaces provided in the lot. For landscape islands within or at the end of a double  parking row, said islands shall be double the size of the parking spaces provided in the lot. B. Trees Required. All landscape islands shall include at least one (1) shade tree of minimum two  inches (2”) in caliper measured at DBH (diameter at breast height): the diameter of a tree four  and one-half feet (4½’) above ground level. C. Landscape islands shall be an integral part of a site’s stormwater management. V. Buffers. Unless otherwise specified, all buffer strips shall meet the following requirements. A. Trees Required. All buffer strips must have shade trees of minimum two inches (2”) in caliper  measured at DBH. These trees shall be spaced no more than fifty feet (50’) apart. B. For side interior and rear lot lines, buffers are not required along the portion of the parking area  that is being stubbed for future cross access. Buffers shall still be provided along the parking stalls. C. Existing street trees may count as trees required in buffer areas. However, if existing trees are  spaced greater than fifty feet (50’) apart, additional trees must be added to meet that requirement. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  27 VI. Preservation of Existing Trees. The preservation of existing trees is encouraged, and may be included in  the minimum planting requirements and credited toward trees required by this section according to the  following list: DBH of Preserved Tree Trees Credited 9-19 inches 2 20-25 inches 3 26-29 inches 4 30-35 inches 5 36 or more inches 6 A. The preservation of existing trees shall only be credited for required tree plantings if the following  conditions are met: 1. The critical root zone of the tree must be protected during the construction process. The  extent of the protected area shall be shown on the submitted site plan. 2. No part of a structure or pavement, except for sidewalks or other surfaces not intended for  vehicular use, shall encroach into the critical root zone. VII. All landscaping requirements shall be fulfilled before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued. Sec. 21: PERMITTED USES I. This section establishes the uses allowed in each zoning district. Lots and/or buildings may be occupied  only with the uses allowed in the permitted use table. II. One or more land uses allowed in a district may be established on any lot within that district in  compliance with all applicable requirements. III. Accessory uses on the same lot with and incidental to any of the uses listed in the permitted use table are  allowed. IV. Land uses not listed. If a proposed use is not listed in the Permitted Use Table, but is similar to a listed  use, the Planning Director may allow the proposed use. The Planning Director shall consider the  following criteria when determining if a proposed use is similar to a listed use: A. The amount of site area or floor area dedicated to the proposed use B. The number of employees C. The hours of operation D. Building and site arrangement E. Signage F. The likely impact on surrounding properties G. Types of vehicles used and their parking requirements H. Characteristics of the proposed use V. Limited uses. Unless otherwise specified, no limited use shall be located on the same block face as another limited use and no limited use shall be located within two hundred and fifty (250) feet of another limited  use. See also Footnote 14 in Sec. 22: Permitted Use Table. 28 Sec. 22: PERMITTED USE TABLE C U C 1 U C 2 U N 1 U N 2 SC SN C SN 1 SN 2 SE IL IG M I N O RESIDENTIAL SF - - - P P - P P P P - - - P SF-A - P P P - - P P P - - - - - Townhouse - P P P - - P P - - - - - - MF 4 units or fewer P1 P P P - - P P - - - - - - MF 5 units or more P1 P P - - P P P - - - - - - Mobile home park - - - - - - - - - S - - - - Group home - - - P - - P P - - - - - - Rehabilitation home - - - - - - - P - P - - - - Personal care home - P - - - P P - - - - - - - Home occupation P P P P P P P P P P - - - P Home day care2 P P P P P - P P P P - - - P CIVIC/INSTITUTIONAL Cemetery as primary use3 - - - - - P - - - P - - - P College/university P P P P4 P4 P P - - - - - C - Outdoor recreation, nonprofit - P P P - P P P P P P - C P Police or fire station P P P P P P P - - P P P C P Public building, government office P P P P P P P P P P P P C - Public park or recreation P P P P P P P P P P P P C P Place of worship5 P P P P - P P - - P - - C P6 School, public or private6 P P P P P P P P P P - - C - LODGING Bed and breakfast - P P P P - - P - - - - - - Hotel, motel P P P - - P P - - - - - - - Extended stay hotel, motel - - - - - P P - - - - - - - SERVICE, RETAIL, ENTERTAINMENT Arts studio, gallery, instruction P P P P - P P - - - - - C - Bar, tavern P7 P P - - P P - - - - - - - Brewery P P P - - P P - - - P P - - Brewpub P P P - - P P - - - - - - - Cigar bar8 P P P - - P P - - - - - - - Country club - - - - - P - P - P - - C - Club, public or private - P P - - P P - - - - - - - Day care center - P P - - P P - - - - - - - Financial or lending institution P P P - - P P - - - - - C - Firing range - indoor - - - - - P - - - - P P - - Firing range - outdoor - - - - - - - - - C9 C9 C9 - - Funeral home - P P - - P P - - - - - - - Laundry, dry cleaning P P P - - P P - - - - P - - Package liquor store - P P - - P P - - - - P - - City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  29 C U C 1 U C 2 U N 1 U N 2 SC SN C SN 1 SN 2 SE IL IG M I N O SERVICE, RETAIL, ENTERTAINMENT (cont.) Personal service P P P C10 - P P - - - - P - - Recreation facility - indoor P P P - - P P - - - P P C - Recreation facility - outdoor - - - - - P P - - - - - - P11 Restaurant with bar P P P - - P P - - - - - - - Restaurant without bar P P P C10 - P P - - - - - C - Restaurant with drive-thru - P12 P12 - - P P12 - - - - - - - Retail sales or service P P P C10 - P P - - - P - C - Special events center P P P - - P P - - - - - C - Television or other production studio P P P - - P - - - - P P - - Temporary festival or special event P P P - - P P - - - - - - P13 Theater (live or cinema) P P P - - P P - - - - - - - Financial institution per Ord. No. 14-O-2114 - L L - - L - - - - L - - - Sexually-oriented adult use - L - - - L - - - - L L - - Tattoo parlor - - L - - L L - - - L L - - Tobacco shop L L - - - L L - - - L - - - GENERAL BUSINESS Ambulance or emergency service - P P - - P - - - - P P C - Artisanal P P P P - P P - - - P - - - Business, vocational school - P P - - P P - - - P - - - Hospital - P P - - P P - - - - - C - Medical or dental office, clinic P P P - - P P - - - P - C - Office, professional services P P P P15 - P P - - - P - C - Radio, television, etc. broadcasting - P P - - P - - - - P P C - Self-storage, indoor - - - - - P - - - - P P - - Service or repair (except automobile) P P P - - P P - - - P P - - Veterinary office, clinic - P P - - P P - - - P P - - Wholesale trade - P16 P16 - - P - - - - P P - - VEHICLE ACCOMMODATIONS Parking garage, structure (public or private) P P P - - P P - - - P P C - Car wash - - P - - P - - - - P P - - Fuel station - P P - - P P - - - P P - - Passenger transportation terminal P P P - - P P - - - P P C - RV Park17 - - - - - - - - - P - P - - Surface parking lot (as primary use)17 - L L - - L L - - - P P L - Vehicle repair, minor - P P - - P P - - - P P - - Vehicle repair, major - - - - - P - - - - P P - - Vehicle sales, leasing, rentals - - P - - P P - - - P P - - INDUSTRIAL Armory - - - - - - - - - - P P - - Construction contractor - - - - - - - - - - P P - - 30 C U C 1 U C 2 U N 1 U N 2 SC SN C SN 1 SN 2 SE IL IG M I N O INDUSTRIAL (cont.) Electrical substation C C C C C C C C C C C C C C Equipment or machinery sales, leasing, repair - - - - - - - - - - P P - - Laboratory - medical, analytical - - - - - - - - - - P P C - Manufacturing/processing - heavy - - - - - - - - - - - P - - Manufacturing/processing - medium - - - - - - - - - - P P - - Manufacturing/processing - light - - - - - - - - - - P P - - Public utility C C C C C C C C C C C C C C Recycling - large collection facility - - - - - - - - - - - P - - Recycling - small collection facility - - - - - - - - - - P P - - Recycling - processing facility - - - - - - - - - - - P - - Research and development - - - - - - - - - - P P C - Scrap and dismantling or salvage yard - - - - - - - - - - - P - - Sewer and waste facility - - - - - - - - - - - P - - Storage - outdoor - - - - - - - - - - P P - - Storage and distribution - - - - - - - - - - P P - - Water supply facility - - - - - - - - - - P P - - Wireless transmitter - - - - - - - - - - P P - - P Permitted C Conditional L Limited S Special Exception Required - Not Permitted 1. Multi-family uses are only allowed on upper stories in the C district, not on the ground floor. 2. A home day care shall only be permitted if five (5) or fewer children shall be cared for in the  home and if adequate parking space for the loading and unloading of children is provided. 3. Cemeteries are permitted as an accessory use to a place of worship anywhere that a place of wor-  ship is permitted. 4. College/university is permitted as a use in UN1 and UN2 district if it is a program that uses an  existing structure. 5. A place of worship is permitted in the NO district if no more than ten (10) percent of the lot area  is covered by impervious surfaces. 6. A place of worship or school is permitted in the C, UN1, UN2, SN1, and SN2 districts only in a  Civic development type. 7. No bars or taverns are permitted in the Urban Core district on any property located between 9th  and 13th Streets with frontage on Noble Street. 8. A cigar bar is subject to all of the requirements of Ordinance No. 15-O-16. 9. An outdoor firing range is permitted if the point of origin of any weapons being fired is at least  500 yards from any adjoining residential property. Any outdoor firing range must be approved as  a conditional use by the Planning Commission and any application for such must include a  site plan and an acoustical study. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  31 10. A restaurant without bar, retail sales, personal service, or professional office shall be permitted in  the UN1 District only with an occupied floor area of less than 2,500 square feet and on a corner  lot. Furthermore, no more than six (6) parking spaces shall be provided on the site. These uses  must be approved by the Planning Commission, which may impose more specific conditions on  the use. 11. A recreation facility - outdoor shall be permitted in the NO District only if it meets the following  conditions: a. It is located on a lot of more than ten (10) acres. b. The use requires minimal impervious surfaces; no more than five (5) percent of the lot  area may be covered by impervious surfaces. 12. A restaurant with drive-thru is permitted in the UC1, UC2, and SNC Districts only if the drive-  thru does not face a Primary Street and all of the other building and parking requirements are  met. 13. A temporary festival or special event may be permitted in the NO District only for a period six  (6) or fewer days. 14. Ord. No. 14-O-21 defines financial institutions as businesses other than federally or state char-  tered bank, credit union, mortgage lender or savings and loan association, that conduct business  as a Pawn Shop, Pay-Day Lending, Title Pawn Shop, or a Deferred Presentment Financial Institu-  tion. Such uses are subject to the following restrictions: a. No two (2) Financial Institutions shall be permitted to be located within 600 feet of each  other. b. No Financial Institution shall be permitted within 500 feet of a residence, church, school,  or public park. c. No Financial Institution shall be permitted if there exists a ratio of more than one (1)  Financial Institution for every 2,500 residents of the City. 15. Office, professional services is permitted in the UN1 district only in the area bounded by 15th  Street to the north, Woodstock Avenue to the east, 12th Street to the south, and the alley  between Christine and Leighton Avenues to the west. An office, professional services is also  permitted in the UN1 district in the area south of 11th Street between Woodstock Avenue  and Highland Avenue. If a question arises about a property in the UN1 district’s being permitted  to have an office, professional services, refer to the area on the former zoning map that was zoned  RO - Residential Office. Lots in these areas may not be subdivided to encompass an area of  greater than 40,000 square feet. 16. In the UC1 and UC2 districts, wholesale trade is limited to no more than 5,000 square feet. 17. A surface parking lot as primary use, in addition to meeting the conditions of a Limited Use,  must also provide landscaping to comply with the following: Landscaping for Surface Parking Lots Primary street buffer strip (min) 10’ Side street buffer strip (min) 10’ Side interior (min)* 5’ Rear (min)* 5’ Abutting protected area (min) 10’ Distance between trees in buffers (max) 50’ Max # of spaces between landscape islands 10 Height of wall* along primary street (min) 4’ *Wall must be constructed of masonry materials 32 Sec. 23: DEVELOPMENT TYPES I. Development Types. All development is classified into the following development types. Each of the  development types is further defined. A. Single Family Residential Detached - SF. Detached 1-2.5 story residential structures each intended  for one family. B. Single Family Residential Attached - SF-A. 1-3 story residential structures that are attached to  similar structures on at least one side (aka townhouses or rowhouses). Each attached structure  has a separate entry and is intended for one family. C. Two-Four Family Residential -MF-A. Structures that each contain between two and four separate  residential dwellings under one roof. May be built in a similar pattern as single-family structures. D. Multi-Family Residential - MF-B. Higher density residential format where five or more separate  dwelling units are contained within a structure. Units may have separate entries or may only be  accessed through a central lobby. E. Vertical Mixed Use - MU. Structures intended to include different uses within the same structure. Typically ground floor uses are retail with offices or residential units occupying upper floors. F. Community Commercial - CC. Large scale, primarily retail, restaurant, and accommodation uses  that serve the broader community. Buildings tend to be 1-2 stories and larger than 30,000 square  feet. G. Neighborhood Commercial - NC. Small scale retail, restaurant, and accommodation buildings  which should be compatible with and primarily serve nearby neighborhoods. Buildings  are typically smaller than 30,000 sqaure feet. H. Office - O. 1-6 story buildings designed for professional offices with single or multiple tenants. May involve multiple large or small footprint buildings in a campus setting. I. Limited Industrial - LI. 1-2 story large footprint buildings intended for light industrial  development, clean manufacturing or warehousing activities, includes “flex” configurations that  offer a hybrid office/industrial format. J. General Industrial - I. Development intended for modern industrial activities such as clean  manufacturing and distribution. Larger in scale than Limited Industrial with minimal, utilitarian  architecture. K. Civic - C. Public and semi-public uses such as government buildings, libraries, police and fire  stations, schools, and places of worship. Civic sites may differ from surroundings in style and  relationship to the street. In the Core and Urban Center Districts, Civic development types may  reduce the BTA requirements by 25 percent. In the Core and Urban Center 1 District, the maxi-  mum building setback may be increased to 20 feet, but the parking setback shall not be decreased,  and no parking is permitted in front of the building on either the primary or side street. In the  Core and Urban Center districts, ground floor transparency requirements may be reduced by ten  (10) percent. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  33 II. Development Types Allowed by District. The following is a table of permitted development types by  district. Development or substantial redevelopment may only occur in these development types in these  districts. C U C 1 U C 2 U N 1 U N 2 SC SN C SN 1 SN 2 SE IL IG M I N O DEVELOPMENT TYPE SF - - - P P - - P P P - - - P SF-A - P P P - - P P - - - - - - MF-A - P P P - - P P - - - - - MF-B P P P - - P P P - P - - - - MU P P P P P P P P - - - - P - CC - - P - - P P - - - - - - - NC - P P P1 - P P - - - P - - - O P P P - - P P - - - P - P - LI - - - - - - - - - - P P - - I - - - - - - - - - - P - C P P P P P P P P P P P P P P2 1. Neighborhood Commercial development is allowed in the UN1 District if it occupies a lot of  15,000 square feet or less and does not incorporate parking in front of the building. 2. The Civic development type is permitted in the NO district, but only on a lot of more than five (5)  acres and with less than five (5) percent impervious surfaces. 34 Sec. 24: MCCLELLAN DISTRICT I. Introduction. A. Intent. The intent of the McClellan development approval process is to facilitate the development  of land in a manner that conforms to City plans (including the Master Plan and plans for  McClellan) but also provides flexibility on the development of the site, promoting high standards  in layout and construction and ensuring development is harmonious with existing topographical  and historic features and surrounding land uses. B. General Procedure. In the McClellan district, all development is conditional based on the  submittal and approval of a development plan, reviewed and approved by the Anniston Planning  and Zoning Commission. The application and approval process is described in detail in  Sec. 24: V. In this district, there are sub-districts that permit certain types of uses, which are  specified in this section. II. McClellan Districts. Within the McClellan District, there exist the following sub-districts. While these  districts have similar characteristics to the districts outside of McClellan, McClellan has a unique  character that is expressed in each district’s requirements. The districts are further defined as to each district’s intent: A. McClellan Central District - MC. The intent of the McClellan Central District is to allow for the  redevelopment of a walkable, mixed-use neighborhood at the core of the previous fort. The  McClellan Central District is similar in type to the Suburban Neighborhood Center, but dev-  elopment and redevelopment should be in keeping with the character of historic buildings within  McClellan. B. McClellan Historic Neighborhood 1 District - MHN. The intent of the McClellan Historic Neigh-  borhood District is to, first, preserve the existing historic Buckner Circle neighborhood and,  second, to allow infill development within the context of this historic, mixed-use neighborhood  that honors the character of the historic district. C. McClellan Neighborhood District - MN. The intent of the McClellan Neighborhood District is  to guide the development of McClellan’s more suburban neighborhoods. The McClellan  Neighborhood District is similar in type to the Suburban Neighborhood 1 District, but  development and redevelopment should be in keeping with the character of buildings within  McClellan. D. McClellan Suburban Corridor District - MSC. The intent of the McClellan Suburban Corridor  District is to allow for commercial and other development along the most viable commercial  corridors such as McClellan Boulevard and Summerall Gate Road. Development along  these corridors should be attractive and reminiscent of the character of historic structures  in McClellan while at the same time being viable for larger commercial or other uses. E. McClellan Industrial District - MIN. The intent of the McClellan Industrial District is to provide  land suitable for light industrial development that is accessible by major transportation  routes within the context of the historic fort. Development in this district should be sensitive to  the historic and natural character of the larger McClellan District. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  35 F. McClellan Natural/Open Space District - MNO. The intent of this district is to preserve natural  areas and open space in order to preserve wildlife habitat, improve air and water quality,  and protect scenic areas and view. Furthermore, the intent of this district is to direct development  into areas most suitable for development where there are existing services, infrastructure, and  connections. G. McClellan National Guard District. The intent of the McClellan National Guard District is to  provide property for the operations of the National Guard. As this District is under the purview  of the US National Guard, the City does not have any jurisdiction over this District. III. Conditional Uses. The uses that may be conditionally approved (C) in each of the McClellan sub-districts  are listed below. The approval of these uses is at the discretion of the Planning Commission based on  an approved development plan. However, these uses are deemed to be the most appropriate uses for these districts and shall be approved if the development plan meets all development requirements and guide- lines. M C M H N M N M SC M IN M N O AGRICULTURAL Timber management - - - - C C Horticultural operations C C - C - C Processing facilities - - - - C - Research and training activities - - - - C - BUSINESS OFFICE General office use C - - C C - Administrative use C - - C C - Data processing facility C - - C C - Call center C - - C C - COMMERCIAL/RETAIL Retail shopping center C - - C - - Individual retail facility C - - C - - Motel/hotel C - - C - - Bed and breakfast C C - C - - Conference center C C - C - - Radio, television, recording studio C - - C C - Publishing operation C - - C C - Entertainment venue C - - C - - Cultural activity C C C C - - Professional service business C - - C - - EDUCATIONAL Educational facilities C C C C C - HEALTHCARE Hospital C - - C C - Nursing home C - - C - - Independent and assisted living facility C - - C - - Medical rehabilitation facility C - - C - - 36 M C M H N M N M SC M IN M N O Medical or dental office C - - C - - Laboratory C - - C C - INDUSTRIAL Manufacturing - - - - C - Processing - - - - C - Fabrication - - - - C - Assembling - - - - C - Warehousing - - - - C - RELIGIOUS Place of worship C C C C - - Clerical educational and training facility C - - C - - RESEARCH/TECHNOLOGY General research facility C - - C C - Experimental or testing laboratory - - - - C - Technology education or innovation center C - - C C - Data storage facility - - - C C - Call center - - - - C - RESIDENTIAL Single family dwelling C C C - - C Multi-family dwelling C C C - - - Planned retirement community C C C C - - WAREHOUSE/STORAGE General warehousing or storage facility - - - - C - OTHER PERMITTED USES The Planning Commission may approve other uses as part of the approval process if those uses are deemed appropriate and the development proposal conforms to this ordinance and the MDA Supplemental Design Development Guide. EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED USES See the MDA Supplemental Design Development Guide for expressly prohib- ited uses. Any uses expressly prohibited by Environmental or other Covenant may not be approved by the Planning Commission. IV. All development in McClellan must meet the following standards:  A. Must be compatible with the Master Plan. B. Must be compatible with the topography of the land, shall preserve any sensitive, unusual, or  significant topographic, natural, or historic features. C. Development shall not unduly negatively impact surrounding properties or the district by adding  significant volumes of traffic, degrading the natural environment or removing historic structures  that are viable and in reparable condition. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  37 D. All development, redevelopment, rehabilitation, and signage shall conform to the guidelines set forth by the McClellan Development Authority in the Supplemental Design Development Guide. Enforcement of these guidelines is the responsibility of the Anniston Planning Commission or its  designee. The Planning Commission shall not approve any proposal that does not align with  these guidelines. V. In order to gain approval for development or redevelopment in any McClellan district, the applicant shall submit a McClellan Development Application to Planning and Development Services. A. A complete application shall include the following:  1. A site plan scaled to not less than 1:100 showing all proposed improvements to include  buildings, landscaping, paving, parking, sidewalks, open spaces, location of signage, etc. as  well as all information required by the Anniston Subdivision Regulations for a prelimi-  nary plat. 2. Representative drawings of all elevations of proposed structures including material call-  outs, landscaping, etc. 3. Proposed uses and/or tenants for each structure or part of a structure. 4. A master signage plan showing typical signage type, location, materials, size, etc. 5. Evidence of ownership or control of the tract proposed for development, or, if the  property is under contract or contingency, evidence of the contract or contingency. 6. Names and addresses of persons/firms/partnerships/corporations showing a financial  interest in the project. 7. A fee, which shall be in accordance with the schedule of fees established by Planning and  Development Services. B. Upon receipt of a complete application for approval, the Planning Commission shall advertise  and conduct a public hearing to determine the suitability of the proposal. C. The Planning Commission shall make a decision on the application within sixty (60) days of  receipt of the complete application. D. The Planning Commission’s designee may approve changes to approved development plans that  he or she determines to be insubstantial. Insubstantial changes are those that do not affect the  overall character of the development. E. Any changes to an approved development plan that the Planning Commission’s designee deter-  mines to be substantial must be presented to the Planning Commission for approval. Substantial  changes may include, but are not limited to, changes to the design of the building or site, changes  to materials, changes to the proposed uses in a development, or changes to signage. V. The Planning Director may approve the use of an existing structure in the McClellan District if the use is listed in the Conditional Use table (Sec. 24: III) as C. This administrative approval is only applicable  to the use of the property, not any changes to the exterior or signage, which must be approved by the  38 Planning Commission. VI. Southern McClellan Master Plan Area. In the area covered by the Southern McClellan Master Plan, the  Planning Commission shall have the discretion to approve a design or use in accordance with the  Southern McClellan Master Plan. This Plan is meant to be conceptual only. Sec. 25: SIGNS I. Primary Sign Types. The following sign types are herein defined. Billboards or outdoor advertising signs  are covered in Sec. 26: Outdoor Advertising. A. Building Sign. A building sign is any permanent on-premises sign, other than a ground mounted  sign, that is attached to, erected on, painted on, or supported by any building. B. Pole Sign. Any sign permanently supported by structures or supports (poles) that are placed on,  or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any building or other structure. C. Monument Sign. Any ground mounted sign generally having a low profile with little or no open  space between the ground and the sign and having a structure surrounding the sign constructed  of masonry, wood, or other materials that are similar to those of the building. The sign is also  generally landscaped. A monument sign is independent from any building or other structure. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  39  D. Freestanding Sign. Any ground mounted sign that does not meet the definition of a pole or mon-  ument sign but is not attached to or supported by any part of the building. The supporting  structures shall be considered as part of the sign and shall be included in computing the sign  display area. E. Projecting Sign. Any sign affixed to a building or wall that extends at a perpendicular angle to the  wall or building to which it is attached. F. Canopy/Awning Sign. Any sign permanently affixed to, painted on, or supported by an awning or  canopy that is attached to the building. G. Internally Illuminated Sign. Any sign lighted by artificial lighting within the face of the sign and  with no external light source so that the sign is illuminated from within. Internally illuminated  signs may be pole, freestanding, projecting, monument, or building signs. 40 H. Externally Illuminated Sign. Any sign lighted by artificial lighting from an external source, such as  lights directed onto the sign. Externally illuminated signs may be any type of sign. II. Primary Sign Types allowed by District. The following table lists sign types allowed by district. . C U C 1 U C 2 U N 1 U N 2 SC SN C SN 1 SN 2 SE IL IG M I N O SIGN TYPE Building Sign P P P P P P p - - - P P P P Pole Sign - - - - - P P - - - P P - - Monument Sign - P1 P1 P2 P2 P P P P P P P P P Freestanding Sign - P1 P1 P2 P2 P P - - - P P P - Projecting Sign P P P P P - - - - - - - - - Awning/Canopy Sign P P P P P P P - - - P P P P Digital Readerboard3 - - - - - P P - - - P P P - Internally Illuminated Sign - - - P4 P4 P P - - - P P P - Externally Illuminated Sign P P P P P P P P P P P P P - 1. Monument and Freestanding Signs in the UC1 and UC2 Districts may be no greater than eight  (8) feet in height and no more than 64 square feet in area. The measurement for height shall  include the entire sign structure. 2. Monument and Freestanding Signs in the UN1 and UN2 Districts may be no greater than six (6)  feet in height and no more than 36 square feet in area. The measurement for height shall  include the entire sign structure. 3. See Sec. 25: V - Digital Readerboards. 4. Internally Illuminated Signs may be allowed in the UN1 and UN2 Districts if they are Building  Signs and are no more than 24 square feet in area. III. Requirements for Signs. A. Maximum Square Footage. The following table lists the maximum square footage for all signage  on a property in all districts. Square footage is measured on one side of the sign only. For exam-  ple, a sign that is 10’x10’ has a sign area of 100 square feet, even if it is double sided. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  41 DISTRICT MAX SQUARE FEET C 2 sq. ft. per 1 linear foot of facade or 32 sq. ft., whichever is more UC1 2 sq. ft. per 1 linear foot of facade or 32 sq. ft., whichever is more UC2 2 sq. ft. per 1 linear foot of facade or 32 sq. ft., whichever is more UN1 72 sq. ft. UN2 72 sq. ft. SC 2 sq. ft. per 1 linear foot of facade or 32 sq. ft., whichever is more - freestanding signs are limited to 100 sq. ft. SNC 2 sq. ft. per 1 linear foot of facade or 32 sq. ft., whichever is more SN1 36 sq. ft. SN2 36 sq. ft. SE 36 sq. ft IL 150 sq. ft. IG 150 sq. ft. MI As determined by the Planning Commission NO 36 sq. ft. B. General Requirements. 1. No freestanding sign shall be taller than thirty (30) feet in height. 2. No more than one (1) freestanding sign of any type is permitted on a lot with frontage on  one (1) street. Corner lots may have one (1) freestanding sign per street frontage, but  these signs must be at least fifty (50) feet apart measured in a line from sign base to sign  base. Corner lots are still limited to the maximum square footage requirements for the  district. 3. Height of ground mounted (monument, pole, or freestanding) signs shall be measured  from grade level of the lot measured at the location of the sign. 4. No more than one pair of ingress and egress signs shall be displayed per driveway  entrance. These signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area or three (3) feet in  height from the finished grade of the lot at the location of the sign and shall not bear any  commercial message or logos. 5. No more than one real estate sign shall be displayed per street frontage per lot and shall be  located at least fifteen (15) feet from any street line. Such sign shall not exceed six (6)  square feet in area for a residential property and shall not exceed 32 square feet in area  for a commercial property. 6. No temporary signs shall be erected in or on any public right of way, public building,  public grounds, or other public place, and no such sign shall be affixed to any tree, tree  branch, fence, fence post or utility pole. 7. Temporary construction site signs shall be permitted on a site where building is in prog-  ress provided that such signage is removed within fourteen (14) days of completion of the  project and totals no more than 32 square feet in area. 42  8. Shopping centers with four (4) or more tenant spaces may have a freestanding sign of up  to 200 square feet. On the building, individual tenants are limited to two (2) square feet  per linear foot of the tenant space or 32 square feet, whichever is more. 9. All signs shall conform with building, electrical, and other applicable codes adopted by  the City of Anniston. All signs and components thereof, including structural supports,  shall be kept in a state of good repair, in good working order, and shall be kept free  of excessive rust, corrosion, rotting, or other deterioration. 10. Repainting, repair, or copy changes including removal and reinstallation shall not require  a permit if the size of the sign is not enlarged, the existing cabinet is reused, and  the lighting does not change. 11. Any new sign erected after the effective date of enactment of this Section shall expressly  meet the regulations contained herein. Any sign which does not conform to the provisions  of this Section, may not, after the effective date of this Section, be enlarged, strucurally  altered or extended unless such sign be made to conform to the provisions contained  herein. . 12. Normal maintenance of non-conforming signs is permitted. When a nonconforming sign  is removed, damaged, or destroyed by any means to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its  replacement value exclusive of foundation it shall not be restored, unless such sign shall  be made to conform to the provisions of this Section. 13. Any non-conforming sign which is abandoned for more than six (6) months shall be  removed. C. Sign Placement. Signs may be located in the following ways: 1. Building signs may only be located on street-facing facades or on a facade with a customer  entrance. 2. Freestanding signs may not be placed in such a way that they would overhang the right-  of-way. If there is more than one freestanding sign on a corner lot, the sign bases shall be  located a minimum of fifty (50) feet apart. 3. No sign shall impede clear line-of-sight for traffic, including pedestrian traffic. The City  Engineer shall determine whether a sign’s proposed placement meets this criteria. IV. Exempt Signs. The following signs are exempt from the general provisions of these regulations and all  permit requirements therein. A. Signs for the control of traffic or other regulatory purposes including signs for the control of  parking on private property, and official messages erected by or on the authority of a public officer  in the performance of his duty. B. Non-illuminated signs not to exceed two (2) square feet which are permanently affixed to build-  ings or structures for the purpose of identifying the name of a building, date of erection or other  historical information. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  43 C. Signs which identify restrooms or provide instructions as required by law or necessity, provided  the sign does not exceed two (2) square feet in area. D. Signs affixed to door or window glass which permanently identify the name and/or address of an  establishment. Said signs may not exceed ten (10) square feet in area or twenty (20) percent of  the glass area, whichever is less. Window signs in any historic district are subject to review by the  Anniston Historic Preservation Commission. E. Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in connection with commercial  promotion. F. Non-inflatable signs or decorations customarily displayed in conjunction with a national holiday  for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. G. Signs, banners, flags and pennants displayed in conjunction with a City-sponsored event or  approved as non-commercial. H. Printed placards or other graphic material of a temporary nature. Said placards or materials shall  not exceed six (6) square feet and shall not be left in place for more than thirty (30) days. I. Legal notices, identification, informational or directional signs erected or required by govern-  mental bodies, or historic markers. J. Signs of local cultural or historical significance as determined so by the City’s Historic Preserva-  tion Commission, including ghost signs - signs that were historically hand-painted on the  sides or rear of historic buildings and have been uncovered or are existing. A ghost sign is exempt  from signage requirements such as maximum square footage only if it does not advertise the  existing business on the premises it occupies. The Anniston Historic Preservation Commission  shall have authority to approve the restoration or removal of ghost signs. V. Digital Readerboards. Digital readerboards shall be limited to twelve (12) square feet and shall not have  flashing, scrolling, or otherwise animated content. Messages shall only be changed instantaneously and must be visible for a minimum of nine (9) seconds. VI. Signs on US or State Roads. In addition to complying with all provisions of this ordinance, all signs on  property abutting US or State Roads shall comply with FHWA and other State or Federal requirements  for signage. VI. Prohibited Signs. The following signs are expressly prohibited within the City, and it shall be unlawful to  erect or maintain any of the following: A. Any sign which is determined to constitute a traffic hazard or may be confused with or construed  as a traffic control device by reason of site, location, content, color or type of illumination. B. Any sign which is located within the public right-of-way, in public parks, or on other public prop-  erty, including (but in no way limited to) the Quintard Avenue median. C. Any sign which extends over the City right-of-way without a clearance of at least eight (8) feet. Building signs on buildings located within two (2) feet of the right-of-way may project a  maximum of eighteen (18) inches beyond the surface to which they are attached. 44 D. Portable signs as defined herein and portable signs attached or affixed as appendages to free  standing signs which are not inclusive to the original sign design; A or T frame signage for  the display of menus, or special promotions shall be allowed at the point of entry provided they  do not interfere with the safe flow of pedestrian traffic. E. A changeable copy reader board which constitutes seventy-five percent (75%) or more of the  entire sign. F. Any moving, swinging, rotating, flashing, blinking, scintillating, fluctuating or otherwise animat-  ed sign, except for time and temperature or stock information displays and digital readerboards  as herein provided (see Sec. 25: V. Digital Readerboards). G. Any roof signs as defined herein. H. Any off-site sign, not an outdoor advertising sign or billboard as defined in Sec. 26: Outdoor  Advertising. An off-site sign is any sign not relating in its subject matter to the premises on which  it is located or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on the premises. VII. Banners. Banners are defined as signs printed or otherwise inscribed on a fabric of some sort, not meant  to be utilized as permanent signage. Banners may be connected to a pole or hung using grommets in the  fabric. Except in the MI and SC districts, banners shall be permitted to be displayed only in accordance  with a banner permit issued by Planning and Development Services. Banner permits shall allow the  display of a banner for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, and no business or other entity may obtain more than four (4) banner permits in a calendar year. Permitted banners are limited to 32 square feet. In all districts, banners must be maintained in good condition and must be removed if they are in disrepair. VIII. Inflatable Signs. Inflatable signs may only be displayed in conjunction with a Grand Opening celebration  as herein defined or in conjunction with a special sales event for a period not to exceed two (2) weeks with an approved inflatable sign permit. No business or other entity may obtain more than four (4) inflatable sign permits in a calendar year. IX. Sign Area. The area of a wall mounted sign shall be computed as the area of the wall covered by the  various components that make up the sign. In the case of irregular shapes (such as individual letters) the  area shall be computed by placing a rectangle around each individual character and computing the area  of each such rectangle. The area of the sign shall be the sum total of the areas of all such rectangles. If the  backing or panel of a sign is clearly a part of the company’s logo, as in the example below, the entire area  shall be calculated as the sign. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  45 Sec. 26: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING I. Billboards Permitted in these Districts. Outdoor Advertising Signs which conform to the provisions of  this ordinance shall be permitted only in the SC, IL, and IG districts, unless expressly prohibited herein. Outdoor Advertising Signs shall only be permitted on lots with frontage on a road classified as a major or minor arterial by the MPO. Under no circumstances shall an Outdoor Advertising Sign be permitted on  a property with frontage on Iron Mountain Road or on any property within any McClellan district. II. Any non-conforming signs, structures, or non-conforming use, which are removed, damaged, or de- stroyed by any means to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value shall not be restored  unless such sign be made to conform to the provisions of this ordinance. III. General Requirements. A. No Outdoor Advertising Sign shall be erected in the area along either side of Quintard Avenue  between A Street and 22nd Street. B. Outdoor Advertising Signs shall not be established at any location having principal frontage on  any street within three hundred (300) feet of any property which is used for public parks,  public schools, church, courthouse, city hall or public museum having principal frontage  on the same street. B. No Outdoor Advertising Sign shall be established closer to the street than the building setback  line, if such a line exists. No portion of any Outdoor Advertising Sign may be placed on, or extend  over the right-of-way line of any street or highway. C. No Outdoor Advertising Sign shall be constructed which resembles any official marker erected by  the City, State or any governmental agency, or which by reason of position, shape, or color would  conflict with the proper functioning of any traffic sign or signal. D. All Outdoor Advertising Signs shall be constructed in accordance with the adopted building and  electrical code. E. All Outdoor Advertising Signs shall be maintained in good and safe structural condition. The  painted portions of Outdoor Advertising Signs shall be periodically repainted and kept in good  condition. F. The general ground area in the vicinity of any Outdoor Advertising Sign must be kept free and  clear of sign materials, weeds, debris, trash, and other refuse. G. Signs which are not effectively shielded as to prevent beams or rays from being directed at any  portion of the traveled ways and are of such intensity or brilliance to cause glare or impair  the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle or which otherwise interfere with any driver’s  operation of a motor vehicle are prohibited. H. No sign shall be so illuminated that it interferes with the effectiveness or obscures an official traf-  fic sign, device or signal. J. No Outdoor Advertising Signs shall be erected without first securing a permit from the City of  Anniston. 46 IV. Size of Signs. A. On the Interstate system, size shall be in accordance with the agreement entered into by the State  and the U.S. Secretary of Transportation and shall be pursuant to State regulation. B. The maximum area for any one sign facing shall be eight hundred (800) square feet inclusive of  any border and trim, but excluding the base or apron, supports and other structural members. C. The maximum size limitations shall apply to each facing of a sign structure and signs may be  placed back-to-back, or in V-type construction with not more than one (1) display to each facing  and such sign structures shall be considered as one sign. V. Spacing of Outdoor Advertising Signs. A. On the Interstate system, spacing shall be in accordance with the agreement entered into by the  State and the U.S. Secretary of Transportation and shall be pursuant to State regulation. B. On all other streets and highways within the jurisdiction of this Ordinance no Outdoor Advertis-  ing Sign may be established within one thousand (1,000) feet of any other Outdoor Advertising  Signs. C. Official and On-Premise Signs, as well as any other sign which does not constitute an Outdoor  Advertising Sign as defined herein, shall not be counted nor shall measurements be made from  them for the purpose of determining compliance with these spacing requirements. D. The minimum distance between structures shall be measured along the nearest edge of the pave-  ment between points directly opposite the center of the signs along either side of the roadway. VI. Height of Outdoor Advertising Signs. No sign may exceed 45 feet in height or the height limit of the zon- ing district in which it is located, whichever is less. VII. Digital Outdoor Advertising Signs. The replacement of existing traditional outdoor advertising signs with  digital outdoor advertising signs is permitted. Messages shall only be changed instantaneously and must  be visible for a minimum of thirty (30) seconds. No new digital outdoor advertising signs may be erected  unless such sign meets the spacing requirements in Sec. 26:V above. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  47 Sec. 27: PARKING REGULATIONS I. General. The following regulations shall be the requirements for off-street parking in all districts unless  otherwise specified. II. Districts with No Minimum Parking Requirements. There shall be no minimum parking requirements in  the following districts: Urban Core, Urban Center 1, Urban Center 2. However, lodging facilities and multi-family dwellings (including those in mixed-use developments) shall provide 75 percent of the required off-street parking spaces for those uses in other districts. III. Minimum Parking Requirements. Properties in all other districts in the City shall provide off-street park- ing in accordance with the following table: Use Minimum # of Parking Spaces Required RESIDENTIAL Multi-family dwellings (includes townhomes) .5 per bedroom All other residential 2 per dwelling unit Group living facilities 1 per bedroom Home day care 2 per dwelling unit + adequate loading and unloading space for children CIVIC/INSTITUTIONAL Place of worship 1 per 5 seats in main assembly area All other civic/institutional 1 per 300 square feet of gross floor area LODGING Bed and breakfast 1 per guest room Hotel/motel 1 per guest room RETAIL SALES, SERVICES, ENTERTAINMENT All other retail sales, service, entertainment 1 per 300 square feet customer floor area Day care center 1 per employee + 1 per 15 children GENERAL BUSINESS Self-storage, indoor Aisles suitable for loading and unloading + 1 per employee on the largest shift All other general business 1 per 300 square feet of gross floor area VEHICLE ACCOMMODATIONS All vehicle accommodations 1 per 300 square feet customer floor area INDUSTRIAL All industrial uses 1 per 1,000 square feet gross floor area OR 1 per employee on the largest shift, whichever is less NOTE: Where a calculation of required parking results in a fraction of a parking space, the required number shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number. IV. Credit for On-Street Parking. Where on-street parking exists adjacent to a property, on-street parking  spaces may be counted toward the required parking on a one-to-one basis, but may not be reserved for  the exclusive use of the adjacent property. 48 V. Stacking Areas. Adequate space must be provided on-site for the stacking and queuing of vehicles. Stack- ing space may not interfere with the public use of streets or sidewalks. A. A bank or pharmacy with a drive-through facility must provide at least four (4) stacking spaces  per drive-through lane. B. A restaurant with drive-through facilities must provide at least six (6) stacking spaces per drive- through lane. VI. Joint Parking Allowed. The Director may approve joint or shared parking for uses with different operating hours or with different peak business hours subject to the following conditions: A. All shared or joint parking shall be located within 600 feet of any uses utilizing the parking. B. Shared or joint parking shall be eligible for the parking reduction as stated in Sec. 27: II. Sec. 28: NON-CONFORMING LOTS, USES OF LAND, AND STRUCTURES AND PREMISES I. Intent. Within the districts established by this ordinance or amendments that may later be adopted there  exist: •	 Lots •	 Structures •	 Uses of land and structures which were lawful before this Ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, reg- ulated, or restricted under the terms of this ordinance or future amendment. It is the intent of this ordi- nance to permit these non-conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Any expansion or extension of a non-conforming use shall require the granting of a special exception by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. It is further the intent of this ordinance that non-con forming structures and properties shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district, except as herein provided by this section. Non-conforming uses are declared by this ordinance to be incompatible with permitted uses in the dis- tricts involved. A non-conforming use of a structure, a non-conforming use of land, or a non-conform- ing use of structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this ordi- nance by attachment on a building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the district involved. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance and upon which actual building construc- tion has been carried on diligently. II. Non-conforming Lots of Record. In any district in which detached dwellings are permitted, a detached dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance, not-withstanding limitations imposed by other provi- sions of this ordinance. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements  City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  49 for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and  requirements other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regula- tions for the district in which such lot is located. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained  only through action of the Board of Adjustment. If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single owner- ship are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this ordinance, and if all or part or the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved shall be considered  to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this ordinance, and no portion of said parcel shall be  used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established  by this ordinance, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or area  below the requirements stated in this ordinance. III. Non-conforming Structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amend- ment of this ordinance that could not be built under the terms of this ordinance by reason of restrictions  on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements concerning the struc- ture, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provision: A. No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this ordinance in the district in which it is  located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered  except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located. IV. Non-conforming Uses of Structures or of Structures and Premises in Combination. If lawful use involving  individual structures, or of structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption  or amendment of this ordinance, that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this  ordinance, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the follow- ing provisions: A. No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this ordinance in the district in which it is  located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered  except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located. B. Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a non-conforming use is  superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the  non-conforming use may not thereafter be resumed. C. When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in combination, is discon-  tinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months, the structure, or structure and premises in  combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district  in which it is located. D. Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises in combination, removal or  destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non-conforming status of the land. Destruction  for the purpose of this subsection is defined as damage to an extent of more than fifty (50) percent  of the replacement cost at time of destruction. 50 Sec. 29: SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS I. Fences, Walls, and Hedges. Notwithstanding other provisions of this ordinance, fences and walls may be  permitted in any required yard, or along the edge of any yard, provided that no fence or wall along the  sides or front edge of any front yard shall be over two and one-half feet in height, except for a public utility or electric substation where a taller fence is required. II. Exceptions to Height Regulations. The height limitations contained in the District Regulations do not  apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilations, chimneys, or other appurtenances  usually required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy. III. Parking and Storage of Certain Vehicles. A. Major Recreational Equipment. For purposes of these regulations, major recreational equipment  is defined as including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pick-up campers or coaches (de-  signed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, buses and  cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by such equip-  ment or not. No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot in a residen-  tial district except behind the nearest portion of a building to the street, provided however that  such equipment may be parked anywhere on residential premises for a period not to exceed 24  hours during loading or unloading. No such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping, or  housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot or in any location not approved  for such use. B. Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license plates or which are  inoperable or otherwise disabled for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days shall not be parked  or stored on any residentially zoned property (whether occupied as a residence or not) or prop-  erty used for residential purposes in a nonresidential zoned district other than in a completely  enclosed buildings. For the purpose of this subsection, a vehicle shall be deemed inoperable or  otherwise disabled if it is unable to operate on the streets and roadways of a city in the State of  Alabama in full compliance with the various provisions of the Code of Alabama, 1975 and/or  The Code of the City of Anniston, Alabama, 1981, as the same may from time to time be  amended. IV. Parking of Large Vehicles in Residential Districts. For the purposes of this section, a residential district  includes Urban Neighborhood and Suburban Neighborhood Districts. The following provisions apply to  all vehicles with the exception of emergency and/or utility vehicles. A. No person shall park or leave a vehicle standing on the street or within 25 feet of the front lot line  of a house in a residential district, any motor vehicle, commercial or otherwise, that exceeds 22  feet in length. B. No person shall park any truck, semi-trailer, or truck tractor having a rated capacity of 26,001  gross vehicle weight (GVW) or more, or a school bus, on the street or in the driveway except for  the purposes of loading or unloading. C. No person shall park any commercial vehicle or motor truck that is not a passenger vehicle on the  street in a residential district, even if the vehicle is less than 22 feet in length, between the hours of  6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  51 D. No person shall park on the street, in a driveway, within 25 feet of the front lot line of a house in a  residential district any non-motorized vehicle attached or connected to a motor vehicle, which  together exceed 22 feet in length measured from the front of the motor vehicle to the rear of the  non-motorized vehicle. E. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, a vehicle may be parked in a residential  district on a street immediately abutting the lot upon which a resident resides, in a drive  way, within 25 feet of the front lot line of the house, for the purpose of convenient departure from  or the return to the lot in connection with a planned outing commencing or ending the same  day of such departure or return, including any loading or unloading of persons or personal  effects, or for the preparation of the vehicle incidental to such departure or return. Such parking  shall in no event extend beyond two (2) consecutive days, or more than three (3) days during any  seven (7) day period. F. In a designated residential historic district any recreational vehicle, travel trailer, motor home,  watercraft (whether mounted on a trailer or unmounted), or utility trailer, except for loading and  unloading activities, shall be parked or stored: 1. Within a vented garage or within a carport that is sight screened from abutting properties  by solid board fencing or sight obscuring landscaping at least six (6) feet in height, or 2. Within eight (8) feet of the side lot line or in the rear yard if sight screened from abutting  properties by solid board fencing or sight obscuring landscaping at least six (6) feet in  height. G. It is not a violation of this section if, in the judgment of the Planning Director, a vehicle is suffi-  ciently screened so as not to be visible to the adjoining property on either side of the house where  the vehicle is parked. H. Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, the parking of any vehicle on a  street remains subject to regulation of parking established pursuant to the Code of Alabama,  1975, and/or the Code of the City of Anniston, Alabama, 1981 and other lawful zoning and traffic  regulations. The same may from time to time be amended. V. Structures to have Access. Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a public  street, or with access to an approved private street, and all structures shall be so located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access. VI. Development on Corner Lot in Residential Districts. On any comer lot adjoining in the rear of another  lot which is in a residential district, no part of any structure shall be nearer the side street lot line than the least depth of any front yard required for a dwelling on such adjoining lot along such side street. VII. Erection of More than One Principal Structure on a Lot. Only one principal structure is permitted per lot  in the following districts: UN1, UN2, SN1, SN2, SE, NO. VIII. Accessory Structures. A. No accessory structure shall be erected in any required front or side yard. B. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five (5) feet from any property line and ten  (10) feet from any other structure on the lot. 52 C. Accessory structures shall not be used as a separate dwelling unit. VII. Utility Stations and Substations. For all zones in which they are permitted in the City of Anniston the  construction and maintenance of public or privately owned utility stations or substations shall comply  with the following regulations: A. All electrical power substations shall be enclosed within a chain link, wooden privacy, masonry,  or similar fence or be so designed to be inaccessible to unauthorized persons. Electrical power  substations in all zones except manufacturing shall be enclosed by a planting screen with  a minimum height of eight (8) feet and of sufficient depth and density to screen the structure  from view. Setback requirements for buildings shall apply to power substations and shall be  measured from the fencing enclosure except that setbacks along property lines adjacent to streets  and alleys shall not be less than fifteen (15) feet regardless of other setback requirements and that  such enclosures shall not be constructed closer than ten (10) feet to adjoining properties. Distribution lines may be run underground from any orientation. B. Public or privately owned utility stations other than electrical power substations shall be enclosed  by a planting screen of such height, depth, and density to screen the structure from view. Fencing  shall be required where such structures present hazards to animals or people. Structures extend-  ing above the ground in excess of two (2) feet shall comply with the same regulations as required  for power sustations. C. Should the public utility company not be able to comply with the above regulations, it may submit  a proposed site plan of the desired installation to the City Planning Commission for approval and  recommendation to the City of Anniston. The site plan shall include the following: 1. Site of physical plant including height of structure, length and width including that of fencing; 2. Setbacks; 3. Means of access; 4. Landscaping; 5. Streets and alleys; 6. Any proposed lighting indicating screening of same should it be necessary to protect adjacent property owners from glare; and 7. Other features pertaining to the particular installation. Sec. 30: MOBILE HOME PARKS I. Intent and Purpose. The following district regulations are designed to encourage the development of mo- bile home parks in a manner that will provide a quality living environment for the residents. The  regulations will insure ample provision of open space and flexibility in lay-out to enhance the develop- ment of these parks with respect to flood zones, steep slopes and other topographical features. Mobile homes and mobile home parks are only permitted as a special exception in the Suburban Edge district. II. Procedure for Mobile Home Development. A Master Plan showing the exact manner in which the entire tract will be improved and used will be presented to the Planning Commission for review and approval of the subdivision and the Zoning Board of Adjustment for review and approval of the use. When reviewing the proposed park for approval as a special exception, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall consider  whether the following criteria are met: City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  53 A. Minimum Parcel of Land. Not less than ten (10) contiguous acres. A mobile home park shall not  be occupied until a minimum of 25 percent of its lots have been developed together with facilities  in accordance with all applicable requirements of this ordinance and with city, county, or state  laws, and must meet all published State of Alabama health regulations. B. Minimum Lot Size. Not less than 50 feet wide by 90 feet long for each mobile home. C. Minimum Separation. Minimum twenty (20) feet side-to-side clearance, and 20 feet end-to-end  clearance for each mobile home. D. Minimum Setback. Minimum setback of twenty (20) feet from any internal driveway and buffer  strip. E. Buffer Strip. Each mobile home park shall have and construct a buffer strip between the right-of-  way line of adjacent public roadways and adjacent property lines of at least 30 feet. The buffer  area shall be landscaped with trees and other suitable landscape materials sufficient to screen the  mobile home park from view from adjacent properties and public roadways. No mobile home lot  shall extend into any required buffer strip. F. Parking. Each mobile home lot shall be provided with 2 paved spaces, with pavement material  which is equal to or greater than the stability qualities of local residential roadways. Parking shall  be prohibited along interior driveways. G. Interior Driveways. All interior driveways shall have a paved surface of not less than 20 feet in  width. The pavement shall be of a material which is equal to or greater than the stability qualities  of local residential roadways. H. Walkways. Concrete or asphalt walkways of not less than 4 feet wide and 4 inches thick shall be  provided from the mobile home spaces to service buildings and to facilitate safe and convenient  pedestrian traffic throughout the park. I. Water and Sewage. Each mobile home space shall be provided with and each mobile home shall  be connected to a sanitary sewerage and water supply system approved by the Calhoun County  Health Department. J. Wiring. All utility wiring shall be installed underground. K. Lighting. Lighting shall be provided to illuminate streets, driveways, walks, and parking areas for  safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians. All wiring shall be underground. All street inter-  sections shall be lighted. L. Recreational Area. A minimum of ten (10) percent of the gross acreage shall be set aside for the  recreational use by residents of the mobile home park. The recreational space shall be located on  land suitable for park development. No portion of the required recreational area shall be within  the required buffer strip. M. Refuse Disposal. Each mobile home lot shall be provided with at least 2 garbage cans of a mini-  mum 20 gallon capacity. In addition, dumpster containers of sufficient size shall be provided  within the mobile home park to enable disposal of waste from mobile home lots. Size and quan-  tity of dumpsters shall be determined by the Public Works Department of the City of Anniston. 54 Sec. 31: REGULATIONS FOR TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES I. Antennas. A. Wall Mounted Antennas. 1. Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the parapet (or wall line) of the building or  extend more than four (4) feet horizontally from the face of the building without  prior approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment. 2. Antenna equipment and the supporting structure shall be painted to match the color of  the building or structure or the building background against which they are most  commonly seen as well as architecturally compatible with the building. 3. Whip antennas are not allowed on a wall mounted antenna structure. 4. Wall mounted antennas shall be located not lower than thirty (30) feet from the ground level of the wall on which the antenna is located. 5. The total area for wall mounted antennas and supporting structures combined shall not  exceed a total of 100 square feet on each exterior wall of the building. The total area shall  be the sum of the areas of all antennas and support structures located on that wall. 6. The antenna area shall be determined as the area of each individual antenna face and the visible portion of the supporting structure as viewed looking directly at the wall. 7. A maximum of three (3) carriers may locate antennas on one building wall. For each additional carrier, a separate conditional use permit must be obtained. 8. No permit to install a wall mounted antenna shall be issued unless the owner of the build- ing grants written permission to install the antenna. 9. Wall mounted antennas may not be installed on a building wall or walls facing a public  street, or on a wall or walls constituting a building’s front or main entrance without the  approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment. B. Roof Mounted Antennas. 1. Roof mounted antennas shall be enclosed by a structure that creates a visual screen. The  screening structure and antenna mounting structures shall not extend more than eight (8)  feet above the existing roofline. 2. The maximum height of a roof mounted antenna is equal to the distance the antenna is set  back from the exterior wall. 3. Roof mounted antennas shall not be located on a building that exceeds the maximum  height limit of the zoning district. 4. The total area for roof mounted antennas and support structures combined shall not ex-  ceed 200 square feet. The total area shall be the sum of the areas of all antennas and  support structures located on the roof. 5. No permit to install a roof-mounted antenna shall be issued unless the owner of the  building grants written permission to install the antenna. C. Monopole Towers. 1. The maximum allowable height for a monopole tower with a single antenna is 90 feet. The  maximum allowable height for a monopole tower with two or more antennas co-located  on it is 180 feet. 2. Monopole towers shall only be located in the rear yard of a lot. 3. Monopole towers may be permitted conditionally in landscaped areas, buffer zones, or  parking lots. (Vertical structures are preferential to these areas such as light poles,  billboards, etc.) 4. The restrictions contained herein shall not apply, however, to monopole towers used in  City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  55 connection with the transmission, distribution, and/or operation of electric utilities. D. Satellite Dishes. 1. Satellite dishes exceeding three (3) feet in diameter shall be considered structures and  shall be installed in accordance with all applicable provisions of this Ordinance, the  International Building Code, and any other relevant regulations. No satellite dish shall  exceed twelve (12) feet in diameter and eighteen (18) feet in height, as measured from  the ground to the highest projection of the supporting structure. 2. No satellite dish shall be placed forward of the rear plane of the principal structure, and, if  not wall-mounted, shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to its height. 3. Where the satellite is not mounted on a building, the supporting structure holding the antenna shall not elevate the lower edge of the antenna dish more than 18 inches above  the elevation of the eaves of the roof of the principal structure. Where mounted on a  building, the combined height of the building and the satellite dish shall not exceed the  maximum permitted building height. II. Permitting Requirements. A. Building Permit Required. No communication tower or other facility shall be constructed unless: 1. A building permit is obtained. 2. All facilities and operations are in compliance with section B 1606 of the Southern International Building Code and the Electronic Industries Associations RS 222 Code as  well as other applicable city, state and federal laws and/or regulations. 3. Certification is received from an Alabama Licensed Professional Engineer that the design  of the facility meets all applicable standards for the facility, including but not limited to:  electrical safety, material and design integrity, natural hazards, safety (e.g., wind,  thunderstorms, tornadoes, etc.). 4. An inventory of existing tower facilities is submitted to the Planning Director. 5. A list of adjoining property owners is submitted (only if it meets conditional require-  ments). B. Interference with Other Communications. No permit shall be approved if the operation will inter-  fere with emergency or airport communications or commercial, private, and governmental  communications. III. Exemptions to the Ordinance. A. Pre-existing towers may be exempted from the ordinance provided ever that a written request  for exemption must be submitted to the Planning Director within 120 days of passage of this  ordinance. The Planning Commission shall consider each such request and shall respond  within 120 days of the receipt of such request. Failure to respond within the time specified shall  be deemed to be approval of the request for exemption. B. Installation of antennas or satellite dishes for residential television or radio reception shall not  require a permit if installed in a location not easily visible from a public right-of-way. Generally  satellite dishes affixed to the side (if not on a corner lot) or rear of a residence or in the side (if  not on a corner lot) or rear yard will not require a permit. Satellite dishes installed in a manner  so as to be easily visible from a public right-of-way due to necessity for a clear signal require a  special exception from the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall grant such  special exceptions based on clear evidence demonstrating that the satellite dish cannot be  56  installed in a manner hidden from a public right-of-way. IV. Permit Approvals. A. Permit requests for telecommunications structures which meet all minimum provisions of the  ordinance and which allow for co-location of multiple antennas may be approved by the Planning  Director. B. Request for telecommunication structures which do not meet the minimum provisions of the  ordinance or which do not provide for co-location will be reviewed by the Planning Commission  and forwarded with recommendation to the City Council for final approval. V. Proposed Telecommunications Facilities by Zoning Districts. A. Residential Districts. For the purposes of this section, Urban and Suburban Neighborhood Dis-  tricts (UN1, UN2, SN1, SN2) and the Suburban Edge (SE) District are considered residential  districts. 1. Monopole towers are prefereable to other tower structures. 2. Co-location is strongly encouraged to minimize the number of towers in these districts. 3. Open space areas are preferable. 4. Color blending and/or camouflage screening shall be strongly encouraged (for aesthetic reasons). 5. Heightened landscaping and fencing requirements may be imposed (for aesthetic and safety reasons, respectively). B. Other Districts. 1. Antennas and satellite dishes are preferably located on the building roof top, side walls, or  nearby vertical structures (billboards, light poles, etc. ); whichever is deemed the  least obtrusive and most safe. 2. Guy towers and self-supporting lattice towers shall only be pennitted conditionally. 3. Monopoles are strongly encouraged. 4. Co-location is strongly encouraged. 5. Color blending and/or camouflage screening shall be strongly encouraged. 6. Vertical structure attachments are strongly encouraged. C. Permitted Uses. C U C 1 U C 2 U N 1 U N 2 SC SN C SN 1 SN 2 SE IL IG M I N O TELECOMMUNICATIONS TYPE Antennas (omnidirectional, directional, and microwave) - P P - - P P - - - P P P - Monopole communication towers - - - - - P - - - - P P - - Guyed wire communication towers - - - - - P - - - - P P - - Self-supporting lattice communication towers - - - - - P - - - - P P - - Satellite dishes (under three feet in diameter) P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Satellite dishes (over three feet in diameter) - - - - - P - - - P P P P - Switch boxes P P P P P P P P P P P P P P City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  57 P Permitted C Conditional L Limited S Special Exception Required - Not Permitted D. Permitted Use Requirements. The following uses may be approved by the Planning Director: 1. Installing an antenna on an existing structure other than a communication tower (such as a building, sign, light pole, water tower, or other free standing nonresidential structure)  that is fifty (50) feet in height or greater, so long as such addition does not add more than  twenty (20) feet of height of the existing structure. 2. Installing an antenna on an existing structure other than a communication tower (such as a building, sign, light pole, water tower, or other free standing nonresidential structure)  that is less than fifty (50) feet In height, so long as such addition does not add more than  twenty (20) feet to the height of said existing communication tower. E. Conditional Use Requirements. All uses listed as conditional (C) in the above use table require  approval by the Board of Adjustment. The conditional use standards shall apply as follows: 1. The height and mass of the proposed structure shall be compatible with existing buildings  and utility structures in the surrounding area. 2. Proximity to existing communication towers within 1000 meters. 3. Impact of use on adjacent or nearby properties. 4. Surrounding topography. 5. Color blending and camouflage screening shall be provided. 6. Impact on Mure development in the area shall be considered. 7. No conditional use application shall be considered unless the following information is  provided by applicant: a. List of adjoining property owners. b. The applicant’s (and property owner’s) name, address, and telephone number. 8. A written statement from the owner of the property where the facility is proposed to be located, stating that the owner has reviewed the plans for the proposed facility, under-  stands the type of facility that is being installed and obligations the owner is undertaking,  and granting permission for the applicant to install and maintain the facility. VI. Nothing in this section shall be construed to conflict with Section 6409(a) of the Federal Communica- tions Commission Report and Order of 2014, which states that a local government may not deny, and  shall approve, any eligible facilities request for a modification of an existing wireless tower or base station  that does not substantially change the physical dimensions of such tower or base station. The term  “eligible facilities request” means any request or modification of an existing wireless tower or base station  that involves collocation of new transmission equipment, removal of transmission equipment, or  replacement of transmission equipment. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to relieve the FCC from the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act or the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Substantial change occurs when the proposed eligible facilities request: A. Increases the height more than: 1. Ten (10) percent or one additional antenna array not more than twenty (20) feet higher  58  for towers on private property, or 2. Ten (10) percent or ten (10) feet (whichever is greater) for towers in the public rights-of-  way and all base stations; or B. Increases the width more than: 1. Twenty (20) feet or the tower width at the level of the appurtenance (whichever is greater)  for towers on private property, or 2. Six (6) feet for towers in the public rights-of-way and all base stations; or C. Involves any excavation outside either: 1. The lease or license area on private property, or 2. The proximity to the ground-mounted equipment in the ROW; or D. Defeats the existing concealment elements of the tower or base station; or E. Violates a prior condition of approval that does not conflict with the FCC’s standards for a sub-  stantial change. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  59 Sec. 32: DEFINITIONS Accessory Use or Structure. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or structure. Assisted Care Nursing Facility. A permanent building or group of buildings (not to include mobile homes and trailers) in which room, board, meals, laundry, and limited assistance with activities of daily living are provid- ed for not less than twenty-four (24) hours in any week to a maximum of two (2) ambulatory adults per room. Non-ambulatory tenants shall not remain at the facility longer than thirty (30) days. The following shall specifi- cally not be considered to be functions of an assisted care nursing facility: a) Drug or alcohol recovery programs; b) Temporary shelter for abused persons; c) Persons with progressive neuropsychiatric disease of aging which is characterized by the inexora-  ble loss of cognitive function as well as affective and behavioral disturbances will only be acc- ommodated per state guidelines regarding such care. Alteration and Altered. The word “alteration” shall include any of the following: a) Any addition to the height or depth of a building or structure. b) Any change in the location of any of the exterior walls of a building or structure. c) Any increase in the interior accommodations of a building or structure. In addition to the foregoing, a building or structure shall be classified as altered when it is repaired, renovated, remodeled, or rebuilt at a cost in excess of fifty percent (50%) of its value prior to the commencement of such repairs, renovation, remodeling or rebuilding. Alley. A public or private way less in width than a street, designed for the special accommodation of the property it reaches, and not intended for general travel. Artisanal. A business that makes high-quality or distinctive products in small quantities, usually by hand or using traditional methods. Automobile Filling Station/Service Station. Any place of business having pumps and storage tanks at which fuels or oils for the use of motor vehicles are dispensed, sold or offered for sale at retail and where minor repairs, ser- vices and inspections may be carried on and rendered incidental to sale of such fuels and oils. Bar/Tavern. An establishment which serves beer, wine, and/or liquor for on-premise consumption as its primary function. No person under the age of 19 shall be admitted on the premises of a bar/tavern. Bed and Breakfast. A residential structure continuously occupied by the owner or operator thereof consisting of not more than six sleeping rooms and breakfast for hire to any occupant for not more than fourteen consecutive days with the following characteristics: Only the breakfast meal may prepared for the guests by the proprietor and no other meals are provided by the proprietor. The rented rooms do not contain cooking facilities and do not constitute separate dwelling units. Due to the desirability of a historical Bed and Breakfast Inn by the com- munity and the many historical and cultural advantages it brings to a community, in addition to providing sleep- ing rooms and breakfast for hire, special events, limited to weddings, receptions, luncheons, dinner parties and business meetings, may be held at a Bed and Breakfast. Brewery. Any premises licensed by the city to engage in the manufacture of only malt or brewed alcoholic bev- erages as well as engaging in the receiving, storage, or warehousing only of malt or brewed beverages within the city for transshipment inside and outside the state. 60 Brewpub. Any premises upon which malt or brewed alcoholic beverages are actively and continuously manufac- tured or brewed, in quantities no greater than ten thousand (10,000) barrels per year, for consumption on the premises where manufactured, or for sale to any designated wholesaler licensee for resale to retail licensees. Buildable Area. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards and/or setbacks have been provided. Building. Any structure having a foundation and roof supported by columns or by walls, including trailers and similar structures whether stationary or moving. Building, Main. The main building shall, be considered as the principal structure on a lot, and an at- tached garage, carport, porte-cochere, porch or part thereof shall be considered as a part of the main  building and shall be subject to the set-back and side yard requirements for the district in which it  is located. Cigar Bar. A licensed establishment in which the primary activity is the sale, manufacture or promotion of cigars or cigar accessories and in which sales of other products is merely incidental. Cigar bars are subject to the regula- tions in Ordinance No. 15-O-16. Club. An establishment formed by any entity for the purposes of health, fraternity, recreation, etc. Conditional Use. Any use that requires additional approval beyond administrative, such as uses permitted in the MI district, which all require approval from the Planning Commission. Conditional uses other than those in special districts shall require approval from the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Day Care. A place for the day care of children or adults not remaining overnight. Home Day Care. A residence that is also used as a place for the day care of not more than five (5) children not remaining overnight. The home day care must be incidental to the primary use as a residence. Development. The term “development” shall include new construction and substantial redevelopment of a struc- ture or property. Substantial redevelopment includes the replacement or reconstruction of over 50 percent of the structure or property. Dwelling. A house or other building used primarily as an abode for one or two families except that the word “dwelling” shall not include boarding or rooming houses, tents, hotels or other structures designed or used pri- marily for transient residence. Dwelling Unit. One room or rooms connected together, constituting a separate, independent housekeeping estab- lishment for owner occupancy, or rental or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and containing independent cook- ing and sleeping facilities. Family. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such family shall contain over five persons. Firing Range (indoor). A facility used as a range for target practice indoors which shall be limited to hand guns and hunting rifles, and shall not include automatic weapons. Such use shall be subject to meeting the standards of the National Rifle Association, OSHA, and EPA relating to ventilation, fencing, lead recovery, buffering, and interior finishing. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  61 Firing Range (outdoor). A facility used as a range for target practice outdoors which shall be limited to hand guns and hunting rifles, and shall not include automatic weapons. Such use shall be subject to meeting the standards of the National Rifle Association, OSHA, and EPA relating to fencing, lead recovery, buffering, and interior fin- ishing. Flag. Any cloth or fabric banner that represents or identifies either a governmental entity or institution. Group Home. A small, residential facility located within a community and designed to serve children or adults with chronic disabilities. These homes shall have five (5) or fewer occupants, unless the occupants are related by blood or marriage, and are staffed 24 hours a day by trained caregivers. Height. The vertical distance measured from the finished ground surface at the center of the front wall of the building to the highest point of the roof if a flat or pitched roof, and deck line of a mansard roof. Home Occupation. A routine accessory and customary non-residential use conducted within or administered from a portion of a dwelling or its permitted accessory building that: a) Is conducted solely by a permanent resident of the dwelling; b) Meets the definition, standards and limitations of a general home occupation and light home  occupation within the following definitions; c) Only include uses that are clearly incidental and secondary to the principal residential use; d) Does not include any retail or wholesale sales on the premises (other than over the phone,  through the mail, or online) nor any industrial use (other than custom crafts and sewing). Hospital. An institution devoted primarily to the diagnosis, treatment or care of the sick or injured. Hotel/Motel. Any building or portion thereof which contains at least (10) guest rooms intended for occupancy by individuals for compensation. Junk/Auto Wrecking Yard. An area where used or cast off materials are stored, purchased or offered for sale either on or off the premises. Loading Area. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled. Required off-street loading space is not to be included as off-street parking space in computation of required off-street parking space. Lot. For purposes of this ordinance, a lot is a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an improved private street, and may consist of: a) A single lot of record; b) A portion of a lot of record c) A combination of complete lots of record, or complete lots of record and portions of lots of  record, or of portions of lots of record; d) A parcel of land provided that in no case of division or combination shall any residential lot or  parcel be created which does not meet the requirements of this ordinance or the Subdivision  Regulations of the City of Anniston. Lot Frontage. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion nearest the street. For the purposes of deter- mining yard requirements on corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated under Yards in this section. 62 Medical/Dental Clinic. A facility operated for the primary purpose of providing health services in more than one medical or dental specialty to the public, and including related facilities such as laboratories and other service facilities operated in connection with the clinic. Mobile Home. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for transportation after fabrication on streets or highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other temporary or permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and the like. A travel trailer is not to be considered as a mobile home. A mobile home is only permitted within a designated mobile home park. Mobile Home Park. Any tract of land privately or publicly owned or operated upon which two (2) or more house trailers, used for living, eating or sleeping quarters, are intended to be located; such establishment being open and designated to the public as places where temporary residential or trailer parking accommodations are avail- able, whether operated for or without compensation by whatsoever name or title they are colloquially or com- mercially termed. Package/Liquor Store. A business which provides retail sales of alcoholic beverages for off-premise consumption. Parking Garage/Structure. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for the parking of motor vehicles. Parking Lot (Surface). A lot or lots used exclusively for the purpose of parking motor vehicles. Parking Space. An all-weather surfaced area consisting of concrete or asphalt or other material that has an area that is adequate for temporary storage and necessary access and maneuvering room for one automobile and connected with a street or alley by an all-weather surf ace driveway which affords ingress and egress for an automobile without requiring another automobile to be moved. For single-family dwellings, required off-street parking spaces can be located on a driveway. It is the intent of this Ordinance that all required parking spaces be all-weather surfaced and individual spaces be clearly marked or striped. Personal Care Home. Homes for the aged, intermediate institutions, and related institutions, whose primary purpose is to furnish room, board, personal care, and other non-medical services, for not less than 24 hours in any week to six or more individuals not related by blood or marriage to the owner and/or administrator. In these facilities, there might available temporarily and incidentally the same type of limited medical attention as an individual would receive if he were living in his own home. This definition also includes homes or centers for rehabilitation for substance or other abuse. Personal care homes have six (6) or more occupants plus staff. Personal Service. Beauty and barber shops, salons, alterations, and the like. The Zoning Officer may make a de- termination if a use qualifies as a personal service establishment. Professional Services Office. Any office that houses professional services such as (but not limited to) law, real es- tate, accounting, etc. A doctor, dentist, or other medical office where patients are seen and treated is classified as a medical or dental clinic rather than a professional services office. Public Utilities. The utilities necessary to the health and welfare of the community such as water distribution, sewage disposal, telephone service, gas distribution, electrical service, cable television service and transportation and which utilities are publicly or privately owned and operated. Public Building. Those buildings or uses in which the business of the city, county, state and federal government  City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  63 may be conducted, including libraries, museums, schools, police and fire houses and structures connected with water supply and sewage disposal, and excluding the sale of alcoholic beverages. Semi-Public Building. Those buildings or uses developed by public or private capital which may be  restricted to a group such as churches, country clubs, and private schools. Recreational Vehicle. A vehicular unit primarily designed as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. Included are travel trailers, camping trailers, truck campers, and motor homes. Recreational Vehicle Park. Any establishment or premises conforming to this chapter and other applicable regula- tions which is designed, arranged, or used for the temporary placement of recreational vehicles. Permanent san- itary facilities adequate for the number of recreational vehicle spaces available shall be provided. No recreational vehicle shall be occupied by a person or family for a period exceeding two (2) weeks. A recreational vehicle park is subject to the same landscaping requirements as a surface parking lot as a primary use (see Sec. 22: Permitted Use Table Footnote 13). Rehabilitation Home. A certified rehabilitation home (certified by the Alabama Department of Mental Health) for substance abuse residents and resident staff, who live together as a single housekeeping unit, with no more than five (5) occupants not related by blood or marriage, in a temporary environment wherein supervision, rehabilitation, and counseling are provided to mainstream residents back into society, enabling them to live inde- pendently. Restaurant with Bar. A restaurant which may serve beer, wine, and/or liquor. Persons of any age may be permit- ted in a restaurant with bar. Over fifty (50) percent of receipts must be derived from food sales. Restaurant without Bar. A restaurant which does not serve alcohol of any sort. Self-Service Storage Facility. One or more buildings in a fenced or otherwise secured enclosure containing vary- ing sizes of individual, lockable cubicles not exceeding three hundred (300) square feet in floor area each, and used for the dead storage of a customer’s goods or wares only. No cubicle shall be used as a dwelling or for con- ducting a business of any kind. Shopping Center. A commercial development built on a tract of land in single ownership or control, and includ- ing at least four (4) retail or service establishments. Sign. Any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color, form, graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing which directs attention to a product, service, place, activity, institution, business or solicitation, or communicates information of any kind to the public. Abandoned Sign. Any sign which is located on property which becomes vacant or any sign which pertains to a use or activity which no longer applies shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Any sign meeting  this description for a period of six (6) months shall be deemed abandoned. Banner. Any sign made of lightweight fabric, cloth, canvas, plastic sheeting, nylon or any other flexible  material, with no enclosing framework and which is not rigidly and permanently attached to a building  or the ground through a permanent support structure. Building/Wall Sign. A sign displayed upon or attached to any part of the exterior of a building, including  walls, doors, parapets, and marquees. Canopy signs, awning signs, projecting signs, and signs suspended  64 from buildings are considered types of building signs. Commercial Sign. When describing the content of a sign, a sign advertising, identifying, directing at- tention to, or otherwise relating to commerce and to property, goods or services for sale, lease, exchange  or any other transaction where value is given or received by any party to the transaction. Digital Sign. Any sign that runs digital signage content. Freestanding Sign. Any sign permanently supported by structures or supports that are placed on, or an- chored in, the ground and that are independent from any building or other structure. Internally Illuminated Sign. Any sign in which the illumination elements are within the sign cabinet itself, as opposed to a sign in which the illumination elements are external to the sign. Inflatable Sign. A balloon or other gas-filled membrane, whether lighter or heavier-than-air, displaying or holding up advertising matter, or used to attract attention to an event or commercial enterprise. Untethered lighter-than-air balloons and other lighter-than-air devices not tethered to the earth which  drift with air currents or are self-propelled are not included. Ingress/Egress Signs. Signs that provide information to safely identify vehicular entrances and exits of  businesses. Such signs may not display a business name or logo. Such signs are limited to six square feet. On-Site Sign. A sign, other than a residential sign, relating in its subject matter to the premises on which  it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on the premises. On-site signs  may include freestanding signs, and other sign types, but do not include signs erected by the outdoor  advertising industry in the conduct of the outdoor advertising industry business (billboards). Open Letter Sign. A sign consisting of a logo or symbol, individual letters or connected lettering mounted on a building in a raceway or similar mounting or on the surface of an integral architectural element,  which is a part of the building. Individual letters may be illuminated. The display area of an open  letter sign shall not exceed the maximum permitted area for building signs on the property. Outdoor Advertising Sign (billboard). An outdoor advertising device which contains at any time a com- mercial message that directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted,  advertising products, services, goods sold or offered, that are not available on the zone lot on which the  sign is located. Political Sign. Any temporary sign bearing a noncommercial message related to an election, a candidate,  a public event, or a public issue. Portable Sign. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure or a sign  designed to be transported, including, but not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of  wheels; signs made as A-frames or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; balloons used as  signs; umbrellas used for commercial messages; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and  visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of  the business and any sign which is clearly designed to be relocated in its entirety, and easily and without significant expense. Projecting Sign. Any sign affixed to a building or wall that extends more than eighteen inches and is ap- proximately perpendicular to the wall or building to which it is attached. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  65 Reader Board. A sign that is designed or used so that characters, letters, or symbols can be manually  changed or rearranged without altering the surface of the sign. Real Estate Sign. Sign used to offer for sale, lease or rent the land or buildings upon which the sign is  located. Roof Sign. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a building and supported by the roof structure. Sign Area. The area of a wall mounted sign shall be computed as the area of the wall covered by the various com- ponents that make up the sign. In the case of irregular shapes (such as individual letters) the area shall be com- puted by placing a rectangle around each individual character and computing the area of each such rectangle. The area of the sign shall be the sum total of the areas of all such rectangles. Special Events Center. A building used primarily for entertainment purposes such as weddings, receptions and banquets. The facility shall not be used for the operation of a night club. Special Exception. A specific, permitted land use that is allowed only when clearly defined criteria and conditions contained in the ordinance are met. A special exception is granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Structure. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences, billboards, and signs. Temporary Festival/Special Event. A fair, carnival. or other temporary event, usually lasting two (2) weeks or few- er. Tobacco Shop. A retail establishment that primarily sells tobacco products, but an electronic cigarette or vape shop is also included in this definition. Transit/Utilities Corridor. On the Zoning Map, this corridor is designated for future purposes of transportation, surface and multimodal as well as expansion for public utility needs. Variance. A relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and a not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary or undue hardship. Variances shall not be used to allow a use expressly not permitted in a particular zone in this ordinance. Wholesale trade. An establishment that sells goods in large quantities to be retailed by others. Yard. An open space extending outward from the closest point of any building or structure to a lot line, street line, or the edge of any environmental area as noted below. All yard dimensions shall be measured horizontally, in a straight line and at right angles to either a straight street line, lot line, or the façade of a building or structure, or perpendicular to the point of tangent of curved lines and facades. The minimum yard requirements shall be provided in contiguous areas located outside of floodways, wetlands, wetland buffer area, easements, stormwater detention basins, related watercourses and slopes exceeding fifteen percent (15%). 66 Sec. 33: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING PERMITS I. Administration and Enforcement. The Planning Director of the City of Anniston shall administer and enforce this ordinance. He or she may be provided with the assistance of such other persons as the City  Manager may direct. If the Planning Director shall find that any of the provisions of this ordinance are being violated, he  shall notify in writing the persons responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land,  buildings, or structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of any  illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this ordinance to ensure compliance  with or to prevent violation of its provisions. II. Building Permits Required. No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, structur- ally altered, renovated, or remodeled without a permit issued by the City. All permits shall be issued for  development in accordance with this ordinance, unless written order is received from the Zoning Board  of Adjustment in the form of an administrative review, special exception, or variance as provided by this  ordinance. III. Application for Building Permits. All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed uses of the building and land; the number of dwelling units the building is designed to acc- ommodate; and such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for, the enforcement of this ordinance. One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the Planning Director, after he shall have  marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by his signature on such copy. The original copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the Planning Director. If the proposed excavation, construction, moving or alteration and use as set forth in the application are in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, the Planning Director of the City shall issue a  building permit accordingly. If an application for a building permit is not approved, the Planning Dir- ector shall state in writing on the application the cause for such disapproval. Issuance of a building per- mit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving any provision of this ordinance. IV. Expiration of Building Permit. If the work described in any building permit has not begun within six (6)  months from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire; it shall be cancelled by the Planning  Director, and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected. If the work described in any building permit has not been substantially completed within two years of the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be canceled by the Planning Director, and written  notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice that further work described in  the canceled permit shall not proceed unless and until a new building permit has been obtained. V. Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Applications, Plans, and Permits. Building permits issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the Planning Director authorize only the use, arrange- ment, and construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and any other use, arrange- ment or construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed in violation of this ordinance, and  punishable as provided by Section hereof. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  67 Sec. 34: ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT - ESTABLISHMENT AND PROCEDURES I. Establishment. A Board of Adjustment is hereby established. The appointment, procedure, powers and  action of said Board of Adjustment shall be governed and controlled by Section 11-52-80, Code of  Alabama 1975. The Board shall consist of five (5)members, appointed by the City Council for a period of  three (3) years, except that in the first instance one (1) member shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years, two (2) for a term of two (2) years and two (2) for a term of one (1) year. The Board is an appeal board for variances, special exceptions, and ordinance interpretations. II. Appeals from the Board of Adjustment. Any person or persons or any board, taxpayer, department, or  bureau of the City aggrieved by any decision of tne Board of Adjustment may seek review by a court of  record of such decision, in the manner provided by the laws of the State and particularly by Section 11- 52-81, Code of Alabama 1975. III. Duties of Administrative Official, Board of Adjustment, City Council, and Courts on Matters of Appeal. It is the intent of this ordinance that all questions of interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the Planning Director and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal from the decision of the Planning Director. The Board of Adjustment hears, only, requests for  variances and special exceptions and determines whether there has been an error in any decision made  by the Planning Director while enforcing the ordinance. The recourse from the decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be to the courts as provided by law and particularly by Section 11-52-81, Code of  Alabama 1975. It is further the intent of this ordinance that the duties of the City Council in connection with this ord- inance shall not include hearing and deciding questions of interpretation and enforcement that may arise. The procedure for deciding such questions shall be as stated in this section and this ordinance. Under this ordinance the City Council shall have only the duties (1) of considering and adopting or rejecting proposed amendments of the repeal if this ordinance, as provided by law, and (2) of establishing a schedule of fees and charges as stated in Sec.34: IV below. IV. Schedule of Fees, Charges, and Expenses. The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and  expenses and a collection procedure for building permits, appeals and other matters pertaining to this ordinance. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of Planning and Development Services, and  may be altered or amended only by the City Council. Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have  been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. Sec. 35: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS The Board of Adjustment shall give careful consideration to the warrants and criteria set forth in this Ordinance in judging applications for Special Exceptions. Special Exceptions may be granted as a conditional use within any zoned district provided 1) the site for the proposed use is uniquely suited to the requested use, 2) there will be no detrimental or adverse effects on adjacent uses, and 3) such use does not violate other sections of the City’s Zoning Ordinance. The Board shall consider such factors as, but not limited to, site access, visibility, noise, effects on adjacent uses and shape and topography of the land. In granting a Special Exception, the Board may attach such reasonable conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary in order to promote public health, safety, and general welfare. Recommendation for a Special Exception by the Board of Adjustment shall require six (6) affirmative votes. 68 Sec. 36: AMENDMENTS I. General Procedure. This ordinance may not be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed  unless there has been a substantial change in conditions in the City of Anniston upon which the  regulations and the number, area and boundaries for districts established by this ordinance were based. If there has been substantial change in conditions, then the regulations and the number, area and bound- aries for districts established by this ordinance may be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or  repealed by the City Council of the City of Anniston at the recommendation of the Planning Commis- sion. The Planning Commission of the City of Anniston, upon its own initiative, may hold public hear- ings, public notice of which shall be given for the consideration of any proposed amendment to the provisions of this ordinance or the Official Zoning Map of the City of Anniston and report its recom- mendations to the City Council of the City of Anniston. II. Amendment Application. An amendment to the zoning district boundaries or regulations as they pertain  to a piece of property may be initiated by the City Council, the Planning Commission, or by petition of  one or more owners or authorized agents of such owner or owners of property to be affected by such change. When a rezoning request is made by a petition of the property owner or authorized agent of such owner  the following procedure shall be followed: A. A minimum of ten (10) days prior to a regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting, an application shall be filed with the Secretary of Planning and Development Services in the City of Anniston. The application shall include, as a minimum, the following information: 1. A fee to be established by the Anniston City Council to defray the cost of processing the  application. 2. The applicant’s name, address and interest in the application, and the name, address and  interest of every person, firm or corporation represented by the applicant in the app-  lication. 3. The name of the owner or owners of the entire land area to be included within the pro-  posed district, if a district line change is requested. 4. The names and addresses of all owners of property abutting the property proposed for  rezoning, to be obtained from the Calhoun County Tax Assessors Office. 5. If the proposed amendment would require a change in a zoning district line, the applicant  shall submit a map, drawn to scale, indicating: the dimension and exact location of the site  to be considered for rezoning; location of all public right-of-ways; and the approximate  location of all proposed structures. 6. If the proposed amendment would require a change in a zoning district line, the applicant  shall submit a written statement indicating: reason for the rezoning request; availability  of required utilities; a legal description of the proposed rezoning site; and explanation of  the substantial changes which have occurred to warrant changes in the district boundary  lines. 7. If the proposed amendment would require a change in a zoning district line, the applicant  shall submit a written time schedule for beginning and completion of the proposed  development planned by the applicant. B. Following the submission of a completed application which would require a district line change,  the City of Anniston shall post signs on the subject property a minimum of ten (10) days prior to  the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission at which the request for an City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  69 amendment is to be considered. The signs shall be provided by the City of Anniston. C. If the proposed amendment would require a change in the zoning regulations, the applicant shall  submit a written statement including: a clear statement of the specific rezoning requested;  reasons for the rezoning; the adions to be taken by the applicant if the rezoning requested is  approved; and an explanation of the substantial changes which have occurred to warrant changes  in the zoning regulations. D. The Planning Commission shall schedule a hearing on the application at the first regularly sched-  uled meeting after the application requirements are met. E. The failure of the Commission to act on any zoning application within 60 days from the time of  official submission to the Commission shall constitute approval. If additional information is  needed, the Commission shall render a decision not more than 30 days after the second regularly  scheduled meeting. Upon the denial of an application reasons shall be established which must be  in writing and must be based on evidence in a written record. F. The applicant, or an authorized representative of the applicant, shall be present at the Planning  Commission hearing, or hearings prepared to orally summarize their request and answer ques-  tions presented by the Planning Commission. If the applicant, or authorized representative of the  applicant, fail to appear before the Planning Commission at the hearing in which their applica-  tion is considered, this failure to appear shall result in the denial of the application based on the  lack of sufficient information upon which to render an opinion. G. No proposed zoning change shall be approved by the Planning Commission except upon one (1)  plus the majority votes of the Planning Commission members present approving said proposed  change. Upon receipt of the approval of the Planning Commission as to a proposed zoning  change, the Planning Director shall notify the City Council of all recommendations of the City  of Anniston Planning Commission for amendments to the City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  and Zoning map by placement of a copy of the proposed ordinance (or a complete synopsis),  thereof, on the routine agenda of the next City Council meeting, provided such notice shall not  be construed to prevent the prior publication of the public notices required in accordance with  law for consideration of the ordinance. H. In the event that a proposed rezoning amendment fails to receive one (1) plus the majority of  votes of the Planning Commission, the applicant may request the City Council to review the  rezoning request and take appropriate action thereon. I. When the City Council denies a re-zoning request, the City Council and the Planning Commis-  sion shall not reconsider an application for the same re-zoning request for a period of one year. Sec. 37: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS Whenever a violation of this ordinance occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written com- plaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Planning Director. He shall record properly such complaint, immediately investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this ordinance. 70 Sec. 38: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION Violation of the provisions of this ordinance or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including viola- tions of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall be unlawful. Any person who violates any provision of this ordinance or fails to comply with any of its require- ments shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 180 days, or both, in the discretion of the court trying the case; and in addition shall pay all costs in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. Sec. 39: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE The provisions of this ordinance are severable. If any provision, section, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof or the application to any persons shall be held unconstitutional or invalid, such holding shall not affect or impair the remainder of this ordinance or the remaining persons to whom it applies, it being the legislative intent to enact each provision, section, paragraph, sentence, and part thereof and the application thereof, separately from each other. Sec. 40: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCE - EFFECTIVE DATE All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this Zoning Ordinance, or inconsistent with the provisions hereof, are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give this ordinance full force and effect, provided, howev- er, that nothing contained in this Section 38 shall be construed to relieve any person from any liability, offense, penalty or punishment committed or incurred under such ordinances before the effective date of this ordinance. This Ordinance upon its adoption and publication as required by law shall become effective at 12:01 a.m. on the 1st day of October, 2016. City of Anniston Zoning Ordinance  71  1- 1      COMPREHENSIVE ZONING ORDINANCE   OF  AUGUSTA, GEORGIA  Editorial revision of the Ordinance adopted March 25, 1963, incorporating changes made necessary by the Home Rule Provision of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983, and the consolidation of the City of Augusta and Richmond County, and other amendments between November 15, 1983 and January 3, 2006 and September 7, 2011  Amended April 2020 Amended November 2019 Amended August 2018 Amended March 2018 Amended February 2018 Amended December 2017 Amended August 2017 Amended June 2017 March 2017 Amended January 2017 Amended July 2016 Amended March 2016 Amended October 2015 Amended August 2015 Amended July 2015 Amended June 2015 Amended January 2015 Amended November 2014 Amended May 2014 Amended September 2013  1- 2 AN ORDINANCE BY THE AUGUSTA COMMISSION TO ADOPT A COMPREHENSIVE ZONING PLAN, MAPS AND LAND USE REGULATIONS; TO REPEAL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES:  WHEREAS, the Augusta Commission, was authorized by the Home Rule Provision of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983 to: Establish planning commissions; provide for the preparation and amendment of overall plans for the orderly growth and development of municipalities and counties; provide for the regulation of structures on mapped streets, public building sites, and public open spaces; repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes; and  WHEREAS, the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission, created and organized under the terms of the aforementioned Home Rule Provision, has made a study and analysis of the areas of Augusta, Georgia and the said study and analysis now are complete and a Comprehensive Zoning Plan consisting of the maps and regulations described herein for the purposes described in the title of this Ordinance are now ready for adoption; and  WHEREAS, the Commission has held a public hearing on the proposed Comprehensive Zoning Plan after giving more than fifteen (15) days notice of the time and place of such hearing by publication in the Augusta Chronicle as provided by the official code of Georgia. THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by Augusta Commission as follows:   1- 3  TABLE OF CONTENTS SECTION  CHAPTER  PAGE  1 GENERAL PURPOSE 1-1 2 GENERAL DEFINITIONS 2-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS 3 3-A Area and Setback Requirements Outdoor/Street Lighting 3-1  3A-1  3-B Open Space/Recreation Area 3B-1 4 Off-Street Parking and Loading 4-1 5 Nonconforming Uses 5-1 USE DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 6 District Definitions 6-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 7 A (Agricultural) Zone 7-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 8 R-1 (One-Family Residential) Zone 8-1 9 R-1A (One-Family Residential) Zone 9-1 10 R-1B (One-Family Residential) Zone 10-1 11 R-1C (One-Family Residential) Zone 11-1 12 R-1D (One-Family Residential) Zone 12-1 13 R-1E (One-Family Residential) Zone 13-1 14 R-MH (Manufactured Home Residential) Zone 14-1 15 R-2 (Two-family Residential) Zone 15-1 16 R-3A (Multiple-Family Residential) Zone 16-1 17 R-3B (Multiple-Family Residential) Zone 17-1 18 R-3C (Multiple-Family Residential) Zone 18-1 19 PUD (Planned Unit Development) Zone 19-1  20 PROFESSIONAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS P-1 (Professional) Zone  20-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 21 B-1 (Neighborhood Business) Zone 21-1 22  B-2 (General Business) Zone 22-1   1- 4  TABLE OF CONTENTS   SECTION   CHAPTER        PAGE  INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 23 LI (Light Industry) Zone 23-1 24 HI (Heavy Industry) Zone 24-1 SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 25 HPA (Historic Preservation Area) Zone (DELETED) 25-1  25-A PDR (Planned Development Riverfront) Zone 25A-1  25-B SCA (Special Sign Control Area) Zone (DELETED) 25B-1   25-C River Watch Parkway (DELETED) 25C-1  25-D   25-E   Savannah River Corridor Protection District Special District Classifications 25D-1  25E-1  25-F Professional Office Park District 25-F-1   25-G MXUD (Mixed Use Development District) 25-G-1   26 Special Exceptions in Any Zone  OTHER REGULATED USES 26-1 27 Manufactured Home Regulations 27-1 28 Airport Regulations 28-1  28-A  28-B  28-C Telecommunication Facilities Signs Adult Entertainment 28A-1 28B-1 28C-1  28-D  28-E  28-F 29 Conservation Subdivisions Recreational Vehicle Parks Personal Care Homes Exceptions and Modifications  28D-1 28E-1 28F-1 29-1 30 Building Permits and Site Plans 30-1 31 Certificate of Occupancy 31-1 32 Enforcement and Penalties 32-1 33 Board of Zoning Appeals 33-1 34 Location and Maintenance of Zoning Map 34-1 35 Amendments to the Ordinance 35-1 36 Effective Date 36-1 37 Severance Clause 37-1   1- 5  GENERAL PURPOSE  SECTION 1  For the purpose of promoting health, safety, morals and the general welfare of the people of Augusta including, among other things, present conditions and the future growth of Augusta with due regard to its relations to neighboring territory and to guide and accomplish coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, including, among other things, adequate provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of good civic design and arrangement, wise and efficient expenditure of funds, and the adequate provisions of public utilities and other public requirements as will tend to facilitate economical and adequate provisions for transportation, roads, soil conservation, water supply, drainage, education, sanitation, recreation, conservation, and development of the State's natural resources, fostering the State's agriculture and other industries, and protecting the State's food supply, for the purpose of lessening traffic and other hazards to life, limb, and health in the thickly populated areas, and the civil defense of the population. 1- 6 1-6  2- 1 GENERAL DEFINITIONS  SECTION 2  Certain words and terms are defined as follows: Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular number include the plural; and words in the plural number include the singular. The word "building" includes the word "structure"; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory. The term "Board of Zoning Appeals" shall mean the Augusta, Georgia Board of Zoning Appeals. The term "Planning Commission" means the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission as provided for in Title 1 and Title 8 of the Augusta, Georgia County Code by virtue of the Home Rule Provision of the constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983. “Commission” means the Augusta Commission. "Roads" include streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, highways, lanes, circles, drives, freeways, viaducts, alleys, and other public ways. "Subdivision" means the division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two or more lots, plats, sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or of building development purposes other than agricultural. It includes re-subdivision, and when appropriate to the content, relates to the process of subdividing or to territory subdivided. “ACCESSORY BUILDING" shall mean a subordinate building not more than one (1) story and no more than 18 feet in height as measured in Section 2: “Building Height.” The accessory structure shall not be taller than the primary structure when viewed from the street. The use of such a building is incidental to that of the main building on the same lot, or of which it forms an integral part of the same lot main building. Accessory buildings shall not be designed and used for residential purposes. They shall not contain facilities for sleeping, bathing or cooking. Accessory buildings may not be used to conduct home occupations or serve as home offices. In no case may an accessory building have a separate electrical service. "ACCESSORY USE" shall mean the use customarily incidental and accessory to the principal use of a building located upon the same building site as the accessory use. "ADULT DAY CARE FACILITY" shall mean any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution or group wherein are received for pay for group care, for fewer than 24 hours per day of three (3) or more elderly or disabled persons that are over 17 years of age. "AIRPORT" shall mean Bush Field and Daniel Field. "AIRPORT HAZARD" shall mean any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at the airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft. “AMPLIFIED ENTERTAINMENT AND/OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT” shall mean any type of music or other entertainment delivered through and by an electronic system. Televisions operating with no amplification other than their internal speakers and background music systems operated at a low volume and not intended for entertainment shall not be deemed amplified entertainment. 2- 2 "APARTMENT" shall mean a room, or suite of one or more rooms, which is designed or intended for occupancy by, or which is occupied by, one family doing its own cooking therein or by one person doing his or her own cooking therein. "APARTMENT HOUSE" shall mean any building or portion thereof which contains three or more apartments, the occupants of any two or more which use any entrance or hall in common, and all living units of which are intended to be maintained under single ownership. "AUTOMOBILE SALES" or "STORAGE YARDS” or "LOTS" shall mean an open premise used for storage or sale of complete and operable automobiles. "AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD" or "AUTOMOBILE USED PARTS LOT" shall mean any place where one or more vehicles not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open or in any building or structure used principally for wrecking and storage of automobiles not in running condition or automobile parts. “BACKGROUND MUSIC OR SOUND” shall mean amplified music or amplified sound that cannot be heard or felt outside the structure in which it is played except for brief periods when customers enter or exit the establishment and that is played within the structure at low volume. "BASEMENT" shall mean a room or story partly underground and having at least one-half of its height above the average level of the adjoining ground. A basement shall be counted as a half-story if used for dwelling or business purposes. “BREEZEWAY” “BREEZEWAY” shall mean the roofed open-passage connecting the main building and an accessory building. Breezeways shall be not less than five (5) feet in width and not exceed fifteen (15) feet in length. “BREWERY” shall mean a large or industrial scale manufacturer of alcoholic malt beverages for the purpose of wholesale distribution. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. “BREWPUB” shall mean a restaurant that produces a limited quantity of an alcoholic malt beverage for on-site consumption with incidental sales to the public as carryout and is consistent with Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses for eating establishments. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. "BUFFER" shall mean that portion of a lot, tract, or parcel set aside for open space and visual screening purposes, pursuant to applicable provisions of this Ordinance, to separate different use districts, or to separate uses on one property from uses on another property of the same use district or different use districts. "BUILDING" shall mean a structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels. When separated without interior accessible connections, each portion of such building shall be deemed a separate building. "BUILDING HEIGHT" shall mean the vertical distance measured from the level of the established grade at the middle of the front of the building, to the highest point of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for a gable, hip, or gambrel roof. 2- 3  "BUILDING LINE" shall mean a line between which line and any street line of a district, lot, tract, or parcel of land, no building or part of a building may be erected, altered, or maintained. "BUILDING, MAIN" "MAIN BUILDING" shall mean a building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In any residential district any dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building on the lot upon which the same is situated. Main building when used with the reference to ground coverage shall mean the dimension of the dwelling including porches and garages. Accessory buildings are excluded. "BUILDING PERMIT" shall mean a written permit issued by the Chief Building Official of Augusta, Georgia  "BUILDING LINE SETBACK" shall mean the distance between the building line and the street line in a district, lot, tract, or parcel of land. “CAFÉ” shall mean a restaurant having a seating capacity of less than 40 persons and conducted consistent with Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses for eating establishments. "CELLAR" shall mean a room or story having more than one-half of it’s height below the average level of the adjoining ground. A cellar shall not be counted as a story for purposes of measured height. "CHURCH" shall mean buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, religious or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business. "CLUB" shall mean buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, religious or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business. "COMMISSION" shall mean the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission. DELETE  “CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT” may be permitted in Zones where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare and are in harmony with the various elements or objectives of the Master Plan/Planning Document in effect. All applications for a Conditional Use Permit shall be accompanied by a scaled preliminary development plan that shows the location of all buildings associated with the proposed use and the number of stories contained in each building. The preliminary development plan must also show the location of all floor plans, curb cuts, driving lanes, parking areas, and the location of all walls, fences and screen plantings that exist or are planned. Any use, established as a result of a Conditional Use Permit must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or it shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Conditional Use Permit is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Conditional Use Permit shall no longer be valid. 2- 4  "CONDOMINIUM" shall mean an individual ownership unit in a multifamily structure, combined with joint ownership of common areas of the building and grounds, in accordance with all applicable provisions of the Apartment Ownership Act of 1963, as amended (Georgia Laws, 1963). "CONGREGATE PERSONAL CARE HOME" shall mean a building occupied by the property owners, or by a person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied by sixteen or more unrelated individuals who reside there and receive care and/or supervision from the property owners or persons in their employment. "CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION – shall mean a subdivision where a large percentage of the overall acreage of the tract is permanently protected as greenspace and the remainder is divided into lots. "DAY CARE CENTER" shall mean any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution or group wherein are received for pay for group care, for fewer than 24 hours per day without transfer of legal custody 19 or more children under 18 years of age. The term shall not include a private school which provides kindergarten through grade 12 education and provides both before and after school care for its students as an auxiliary service during the regular school year only. "DEPENDENT TRAVEL UNIT" shall mean a Travel Unit other than a self-contained Travel Unit. “DISTILLERY” shall mean a large or industrial scale manufacturer of alcoholic distilled spirits for the purpose of wholesale distribution. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. “DISTRIBUTOR” – shall mean the manufacturer’s direct point of contact for prospective buyers of certain products. DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS – drinking establishments (nightclubs) shall be a building that has a seating capacity of at least 40 persons consistent with Section 6-2-51 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses. “DUMPSTER” – a container having a minimum capacity of two cubic yards and that has a hinged mechanism that permits it to be raised and dumped into a sanitation vehicle and is used for temporary storage of rubbish, trash and other similar discarded materials, pending collection. (See also “Recyclable Material Bins”)  “DWELLING OR DWELLING UNIT” shall mean any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used exclusively for the purposes of living, sleeping, cooking and sanitation by one (1) family as described in this section. "DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY" OR "ONE-FAMILY DWELLING" shall mean a building containing but one housekeeping unit, and designed and used to house not more than one family in a permanent manner, which may include not more than two boarders or lodgers. 2- 5 "DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY" OR "TWO-FAMILY DWELLING" shall mean a building containing not more than two housekeeping units, and designed or used to house not more than two families, living independently of each other, each of which may include no more than two lodgers or boarders. "DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY" OR "MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING" shall mean a building designed for, or portion of a building having accommodations for, three or more families being independent of each other, and each having its own kitchen and bath facilities. This term includes premises occupied more or less permanently for residential purposes in which the rooms are occupied in apartments, suites, or groups such as apartment units, tenement houses, flats, apartment hotels, bachelor apartments, studio apartments, kitchenette apartments, and all other dwellings similarly occupied. EASEMENT, FLAGPOLE LOT(s): Lots shall provide a minimum sixty (60) foot right-of-way and a minimum roadway or pavement width of twenty-four (24) feet, or meet the minor- residential street specifications outlined in the most recent edition of Augusta Engineering Street and Road Design Technical Manual, whichever is greater. "EXPRESSWAY" shall mean a divided highway for through traffic with full or partial control of access and generally with grade separations at intersections. It contains two lanes or more for traffic going in opposing directions and divided by a median strip and designed so as to protect the opposing flows of traffic and thus increase the safety and practical capacity of the road for regional and inter-regional traffic. "FAMILY" shall mean a group of one or two persons, or parents with their direct descendants and adopted children (and including the domestic employees thereof), together with not more than two persons not so related, living together in a room or rooms comprising a single housekeeping unit. Family does not include a group occupying a club, sorority, or fraternity house. "FAMILY DAY CARE HOME" shall mean a private residence operated by any person who receives therein for pay for supervision and care fewer than 24 hours a day, without transfer of legal custody, three but not more than six children under 18 years of age who are not related to such persons and whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same private residence. "FAMILY PERSONAL CARE HOME" shall mean a building occupied by the property owners, or by a person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied by three but not more than six unrelated individuals who reside there and receive care and/or supervision from the property owners or persons in their employment. "FILLING STATION" shall mean any building or premises used solely for storing, dispensing, servicing, sale, or offering for sale, at retail of any automobile fuels and lubricants and/or automobile accessories, but not including major automobile repairing. "FLEA MARKET" shall mean property which the owner rents, lends or leases the premises to persons for use as a marketplace to barter, exchange, or sell secondhand goods. Yard sales at residences are not flea markets, and craft shows shall not constitute flea markets. 2- 6 "FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION" shall mean buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, religious or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business. "FRONTAGE" shall mean the distance for which property abuts one side of a street, road, highway, or other public way measured along the dividing line between the property and such road or highway or other public way. "FRONTAGE ROADWAY" or "ACCESS STREET" shall mean a roadway contiguous to and generally paralleling an interstate highway, expressway, major street or highway, or through street or highway and designed so as to intercept, collect and distribute traffic desiring to cross, enter, or leave such facility and to furnish access to property which would otherwise be isolated as a result of controlled access features peculiar to topographic conditions. "FUNERAL HOME" shall mean a building or part thereof used for human funeral services. Such building may contain space and facilities for: a) embalming and the performance of other services used in preparation of the dead for burial; b) the performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures; c) the storage of caskets, funeral urns, and other related funeral supplies; and d) the storage of funeral vehicles and the allowance of cremation facilities for use by the individual funeral home within which such cremation facilities would be located. When a funeral home is permitted, a funeral chapel shall also be permitted. "GARAGE" shall mean a building used for the storage or housing of motor driven vehicles. "GARAGE, PRIVATE" OR "PRIVATE GARAGE" shall mean a garage intended for, and owned or used by, the members of a family resident upon the premises, provided that not more than one-half of the garage space may be rented for private vehicles owned or used by persons not residing on the premises, except that all the space in a garage of one- or two-car capacity may be so rented. Such a garage shall not include those used by more than one (1) commercial vehicle per family resident on the premises, and no such commercial vehicle shall exceed two (2) ton capacity, nor shall such garage provide for the repair or equipping of such vehicles. "GARAGE, SERVICE" shall mean a garage used for repair of vehicles. "GARAGE, STORAGE" shall mean a garage used primarily for storage of vehicles. "GOVERNING BODY" shall mean the Augusta Commission. "GREENSPACE" shall mean an area permanently protected for the common use of the general public or for the common use of the residents of a development, and in its natural state or developed only to an extent conforming to these regulations. "GROUP DAY CARE HOME" shall mean any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution or group wherein are received for pay not less than seven nor more than 18 children under 18 years of age for care and supervision less than 24 hours a day. 2- 7  "GROUP PERSONAL CARE HOME" shall mean a building occupied by the property owners, or by a person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied by seven but not more than fifteen unrelated individuals who reside there and receive care and/or supervision from the property owners or persons in their employment. "GUEST ROOM" shall mean a room which is designed or intended for occupancy by, or which is occupied by, one or more guests, but in which no provision is made for cooking, and not including dormitories for sleeping purposes. "HOME OCCUPATION" shall mean an activity carried out for gain by a resident conducted as an accessory use in the resident's dwelling unit. "HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION" shall mean an incorporated, nonprofit organization operating under recorded land agreements through which (a) each lot owner in a planned unit or other described land area is automatically a member, and (b) each lot is automatically subject to a charge for a proportionate share of the expenses for the organization's activities, such as maintenance of common property. "HOSPITAL" shall mean an institution providing health services primarily for human in- patient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, central services facilities, and staff offices that are an integral part of the facilities. "HOTEL" shall mean any building containing sleeping rooms for the more or less temporary occupancy of individuals who are lodged, with or without meals, where guest rooms are accessed through a central area or main lobby, and where the structure exceeds two stories in height. "HOTEL - EXTENDED STAY" shall mean a building containing guest rooms rented for temporary lodging where guest rooms are accessed through a central area or main lobby and where half or more than half of the rooms have kitchenettes or some kitchen facilities. "HOTEL, APARTMENT" shall mean any building which satisfies both the definition of a multiple-dwelling house and that of a hotel as defined by this section. "INERT FILL AREA" shall mean a disposal facility accepting only materials limited to earth, earth-like products, concrete, cured asphalt rock, bricks, yard trimmings, stumps, limbs, and leaves. This definition excludes industrial and demolition waste not specifically listed above. For the purpose of this ordinance, filling of land which is not specifically related to a subdivision development plan or a site plan which has been filed with the Planning and Development Department shall be defined as an inert fill area if the volume of fill is expected to exceed 5,000 cubic yards. "INTERSTATE HIGHWAY" shall mean a divided highway with limited access designed primarily for interstate travel. It is an integral part of a nationwide highway network connecting principal cities, with four or more traffic lanes separated by a median strip to provide maximum safety for motorists. 2- 8 "JUNKYARD" shall mean any place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled, or handled; including automobile wrecking yards, automobile used parts lots, used lumber yards, salvaged building materials, salvaged household appliances, or other types of machinery; but excluding establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used automobiles in running condition, used furniture, or salvaged materials used as part of a manufacturing process on the same site. "LAND" or "TERRITORY SUBDIVISION" shall mean a parcel or tract of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a map and filed with the Clerk of the Superior Court of Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia, as of the date of the adoption of this Ordinance. "LANDING AREA" shall mean the area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff, or taxiing of aircraft. "LANE" shall mean a public thoroughfare which ordinarily affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property and which is not more than twenty (20) feet wide. “LIQUOR STORE” shall mean a retail outlet for the purpose of the sale of alcoholic beverages to include beer, wine and spirits. "LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENTERPRISES" shall mean the Augusta Commission governmental functions such as schools, municipal or county office buildings, playgrounds, parks, reservations, public transit terminals, public golf courses, fire stations, police stations and substations, and similar institutional uses. “LODGING OR “BOARDING HOUSE” - establishments providing temporary or longer-term accommodations, for compensation, at no less than thirty (30) days for 4 or more persons which, for the period of occupancy, may serve as a principal residence. These establishments also may provide complementary services, such as housekeeping, meals, and laundry services. No health related services may be provided, including but not limited to, dispensing of medications. The owner or an employee of the owner (resident manager) must reside on site and are counted toward the maximum occupancy. Such operations are allowed by Special Exception approval only in the R-3A, R-3B and R-3C Zones under defined performance standards. They are allowed by right in the B-1 and B-2 Zones under defined performance standards. "LOT" or "LOT PLAT" shall mean a lot or a parcel of land occupied, or intended to be occupied by, a principal building or use and any accessory building and uses customarily incidental to it, and including open spaces not less in extent than those required in connection therewith by the Ordinance. For the purpose of this Ordinance, the terms lot, parcel, and tract are used synonymously. "LOT, CORNER" "CORNER LOT" shall mean a lot which abuts on two or more streets and/or roads at their intersection or upon a curved street, provided that the two sides of the lot, or the tangents to the curve of the street line at its starting points at or within the side lines of the lot, intersects to form an interior angle of not more than 135 degrees. "LOT DEPTH" shall mean the distance between front and rear lot lines. If two (2) opposite sides of said lot are not parallel, the depth shall be deemed to be the mean distance between the front and rear lot lines. 2- 9  “LOT FLAGPOLE” shall mean a lot so named because of the long, slender strip of land, resembling a “flagpole” that extends from the public or private right-of-way up to the typically rectangular portion of the lot. These “flagpoles” generally share a common driveway inside an ingress-egress easement for means of access to each lot. "LOT WIDTH" shall mean the width of the lot measured at the setback line. "LOT LINE, FRONT" shall mean any lot line contiguous to a street right-of-way. "LOT LINE, REAR" shall mean the rear lot line boundary opposite the lot line which the principal building fronts. The rear lot line of an irregular or triangular lot shall be for the purpose of this Ordinance a line not less than ten (10) feet long, lying wholly within the lot, and parallel to and farthest distance from the front lot line. "LOT OF RECORD" is a parcel of land the dimensions of which are shown on a map on file with the Clerk of Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia, or in common use by county officials, and which actually exists as so shown, or any part of such parcel held in a recorded ownership separate from the ownership of the remainder thereof. All lots recorded after adoption of this Ordinance shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of a public street, road, highway or private lane. "LOT LINE, SIDE" shall mean a side lot boundary line that is not a front lot line or a rear lot line. “LOW VOLUME” shall mean sound played at a level such that a person speaking in a normal tone of voice can be heard clearly over this sound by another person standing thirty-six inches (36") away. "MANUFACTURED HOME" a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width and forty body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation. "MANUFACTURED HOME PARK" shall mean any site, lot, parcel, or tract of land upon which two or more manufactured homes are placed in accordance with Section 27 of this Ordinance. "MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE" shall mean a unit of ground, as prescribed by Section 27 of this Ordinance, which shall be clearly indicated by corner markers on which may be placed a Manufactured Home as defined by this Ordinance. "MAP, OFFICIAL" "OFFICIAL MAP" shall mean the official zoning map of Augusta which shows the boundaries of the various districts superimposed upon the Property Map and Record System for Augusta, Georgia. "MASTER PLAN" shall mean any legally adopted part, maps, or element of any Master Plan as provided for in Title 8 of the Augusta, Georgia Code by virtue of the Home Rule Provision of  2- 10 the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983. Such Master Plan may be entitled a "Comprehensive Plan", "Land Use Plan", or other similar terminology. “MICRO BREWERY” shall mean a manufacture of alcoholic malt beverages of up to 15,000 barrels per year for the purpose of wholesale distribution of a majority of its product with incidental sales to the public either for on-site consumption or for carryout not to exceed 288 ounces per person per day. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. “MINI-WAREHOUSE / SELF SERVICE STORAGE FACILITIES” shall mean a building, or group of buildings, divided into units, whose primary purpose is to provide rented or leased secure space (warehouse-sized units, rooms, compartments, lockers, containers, outdoor space, or similar facilities) for temporary self-storage, where tenants can easily store and retrieve their personal property. This definition does not include the handling of goods for business purposes out of the Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage facility. Coin operated locker services at public spaces are excluded from this definition. "MOTEL" shall mean any building containing sleeping rooms for more or less temporary occupancy of individuals who are lodged with or without meals and where the design favors a direct vehicular approach to each sleeping or living room. Any building or structure exceeding two stories in height shall be classified as a Hotel rather than a Motel. "MOTEL - EXTENDED STAY" shall mean a building containing guest rooms rented for temporary lodging where the design favors a direct vehicular approach to each room and where more than two rooms have kitchenettes or some kitchen facilities. “NANO BREWERY” shall mean a producer of alcoholic malt beverages of up to 3,000 barrels per year for the purpose of wholesale distribution and retail sales to the public for on-site consumption or for carryout not to exceed 288 ounces per person per day. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. “NANO DISTILLERY” shall mean a producer of alcoholic distilled spirits of up to 500 barrels per year for the purpose of wholesale distribution and retail sales to the public for on-site consumption or for carryout not to exceed 3 bottles (750 ml) per person per day. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. "NATURAL GRADE" shall mean the elevation of the ground adjoining the building. “NIGHTCLUB” shall mean any establishment dispensing alcoholic beverages and meals and in which music, dancing and entertainment is conducted. "NON-CONFORMING USE" shall mean any use of land, buildings, trees, or structures that did not conform to the regulations of the district in which it was situated as of March 25, 1963 or at such time as amendments to this Ordinance occur. "NURSING HOME" shall mean a facility that provides full health and continuous nursing care of three (3) or more elderly or disabled persons but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily to diagnosis and treatment. 2- 11 “OPEN SPACE” is any open piece of land that is undeveloped (has no buildings or other built structures) and is accessible to the public. Open space can include: Greenspace, landscaping, buffers, and other natural environments. "PARKING LOT" shall mean a parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces which may include partially enclosed one-story buildings, and where a charge is made for storage or parking of vehicles. "PARKING LOT, ACCESSORY" shall mean a parcel of land used by an individual, partnership, firm, or corporation in any commercial or industrial district exclusively for the parking of vehicles of its employees or customers, and for which no charge is made. "PARKING SPACE" shall mean an area of appropriate dimensions per Section 4 of this Ordinance, exclusive of access or maneuvering area, or ramps or columns, etc., to be used exclusively as a temporary storage space for private motor vehicles. Truck loading space shall not be included in such area. When the application of a unit of measurement for parking spaces to a particular use or structure results in a fractional space, any fraction under one-half shall be disregarded and fractions of one-half or over shall be counted as one space. "PAROCHIAL SCHOOL" deleted March 5, 2013 - See Private School  “PERMANENT PROTECTION - LAND AND/OR WATER WHICH IS”: (1) Owned by the Federal, State, or Local Government and permanently designated for recreation, conservation, or natural resource protection; or (2) Privately owned and subject to a conservation easement that ensures that the land will be maintained as greenspace and used only in perpetuity for recreation, conservation, or natural resource protection; or (3) Privately owned and subject to a permanent restrictive covenant provided for in O.C.G.A. 44-5-60 (c); or (4) Privately owned and permanently legally protected by any other method that ensures that the property will remain forever as greenspace and be used only for recreation, conservation, or natural resource protection. "PERMITTED USE" shall mean a use of land that is permitted or allowed “by right”, and does not constitute a nonconforming use, and therefore requires no further rezoning or granting of a special exception. “PERMITTEE” shall mean any person possessing a non-transferable special entertainment permit. "PERSON" shall mean any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association or body politic, and includes any trustee, receiver, assigns or other similar representative thereof. "PERSONAL CARE HOME" shall mean a building occupied by the property owners, or by a person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied by unrelated individuals who reside there and receive care and/or supervision from the property owners or persons in their employment. A personal care home shall provide care for elderly and/or handicapped persons. 2- 12 Personal Care Homes shall be classified as: Family Personal Care Homes, Group Personal Care Homes, and Congregate Personal Care Homes. “PICO BREWERY” shall mean a small batch producer of alcoholic malt beverages of up to 500 barrels per year for the purpose of retail sales to the public for on-site consumption or for carryout not to exceed 288 ounces per person per day. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. “PICO DISTILLERY” shall mean a small batch producer of alcoholic distilled spirits of up to 100 barrels per year for the purpose of retail sales to the public for on-site consumption or for carryout not to exceed 3 bottles (750 ml) per person per day. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. "PLANNING COMMISSION" shall mean the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission. "PLANTING STRIP" shall mean the portion of the street between the curb and the property line exclusive of the area occupied by the sidewalk. "PRIVATE SCHOOL" shall mean an institution which meets the following criteria:  o The primary purpose of the institution is to provide the basic academic educational program which includes, but is not limited to, reading, language arts, mathematics, social studies and science. o The institution is not publically controlled and operates on a continuous basis and; o The institution provides instruction each 12 months for the equivalent of 180 days of education with each school day consisting of at least four and one-half hours per day. "PUBLIC NOTICE" shall mean a notice published once in a newspaper of general circulation in Augusta, Georgia at least 15 days prior to a public hearing concerning proposed changes or amendments to this Ordinance including the maps thereto, setting forth the time, place, and purpose of said hearing, shall be deemed a public notice. “RECREATION SPACE” is a portion of Open Space used for physical activity for all age groups. Such space may include walking trails, playgrounds, sport facilities, and other facilities. “RECREATIONAL VEHICLES” For the purpose of this ordinance, any of the following vehicles designed for travel, recreation, and vacation uses: motorhome ( a portable, temporary dwelling constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle); van ( a portable, temporary dwelling constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle); pickup camper (a structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis); recreational trailer (a portable structure built on a single chassis, 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest exterior horizontal projections); park trailer (a semi-portable structure built on a single chassis which does not exceed 400 square feet when constructed to ANSI A-119.5 standards, and 500 square feet when constructed to USDHUD standards); or tent trailer (a canvas or synthetic fiber folding structure mounted on a hard body base and towed by a vehicle). 2- 13 “RECYCLABLE MATERIAL BINS” – a container having a minimum capacity of two cubic yards and that has a hinged mechanism that permits it to be raised and dumped into a sanitation vehicle and is used for temporary storage of recycling materials, pending collection. (See also “DUMPSTER”)  “RESTAURANT” shall mean an eating establishment having a seating capacity of at least 40 persons and conducted consistent with Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses for eating establishments. "ROADWAY" "TRAVELED WAY" or "STREET SURFACE" shall mean that portion of a road which is improved, designed, or ordinarily intended for vehicular use. Divided roads and roads with frontage or access roads have more than one roadway. On undivided roads without frontage roadways or access roads, the roadway width lies between the curb lines or between the pavement edges, whichever is appropriate. "SERVICE BUILDING" shall mean a building or structure located within a Manufactured Home Park or Travel Trailer Park for the welfare and convenience of the occupants of the Manufactured Home Park or Travel Trailer Park within which such Service Building is located. Such Service Building shall not be made available for the use of any person not residing in the Manufactured Home Park or Travel Trailer Park within which such Service Building is located. "SETBACK" shall be an unoccupied area of a lot, open and unobstructed from the ground to the sky, except as otherwise provided for in this Ordinance. For the purpose of this Ordinance the words "setback" and "yard" are synonymous. “SIGN” see Section 28-B  "SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED BUILDING" shall mean a building containing two or more single- family attached dwelling units joined at one or more points by one or more party walls or other common facility not including the walls of an enclosed courtyard or similar area. "SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING" shall mean a dwelling unit on an individual lot attached to another dwelling unit on an adjoining lot by a common party wall. "SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED SUBDIVISION" shall mean a subdivision development of a single-family attached or other dwellings developed in accordance with the provisions of Section 13 and the Subdivision Regulations for Augusta Commission. “SPECIAL ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT” a Special Exception for an establishment that provides amplified entertainment and/or live entertainment. "STORY" shall mean the vertical distance of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there be no floor above it, then the space between such floor and ceiling next above it, provided that a cellar shall not be considered a story. Attic or basement space is construed as one-half. "STREET" shall mean a public thoroughfare, where public title to land extends between right- of-way lines. Whenever the sense of the law or these regulations so require, the word "Street"  2- 14 shall include avenue, drive, circle, road, highway, or similar terms as they are generally understood. "STREET, ARTERIAL" shall mean a street designated as either a principal arterial or a minor arterial that is a facility of such significance that it serves traffic passing through the Augusta area or connects rural and urban traffic or serves major traffic movements within the urbanized area. Arterial streets in Augusta have been designated by the functional classification system adopted by the Augusta Regional Transportation Study. "STREET, COLLECTOR" shall mean a street that provides both land access service and traffic circulation within residential, commercial, and industrial areas. Collector streets are facilities which collect traffic from internal local streets and distribute it to the arterial system. Collector streets in Augusta have been designated by the functional classification system adopted by the Augusta Regional Transportation Study. "STREET, DEAD END" shall mean a street with no outlet at one end. "STREET GRADE" shall mean the grade of the curb or centerline of the street upon which the lot abuts at the midpoint of the frontage. "STREET, INDUSTRIAL" or "BOULEVARD" shall mean a street of some continuity used primarily by all forms of commercial or industrial vehicular traffic and used for intercommunication between commercial areas and residential areas and industrial districts, or between industrial districts. “STREET LIGHTING” lighting that provides a level of illumination to clearly identify persons or objects and creates a psychological deterrent to unwanted or unsafe activity in the area being protected. "STREET LINE" or "RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE" shall mean the dividing line between a lot, its property line or lines, and a public right-of-way, a public street, road or highway, over which two or more abutting property owners have an easement of right-of-way. "STREET, MAJOR " or "HIGHWAY" shall mean a highway used primarily for through traffic, usually on a continuous route, with intersections at grade and having direct access to abutting property, and on which geometric design and traffic control measures are used to expedite the safe movement of through traffic. "STREET, MINOR" or "LOCAL" shall mean a street primarily for access to abutting property. "STREET, RURAL" or "ROAD" shall mean a street supplementary to the major street system, which primarily serves agricultural areas or other lands not subdivided for residential use. "STREET WIDTH" shall mean the horizontal distance between the right-of-way lines of the street, measured at right angles to the right-of-way lines. 2- 15 "STRUCTURE" shall mean anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent or semi-permanent location on the ground or the attachment to something having a permanent location on the ground or water. (The term shall include all types of buildings, houses, gazebos, above-ground swimming pools, in-ground swimming pools, hot tubs, heating and air conditioning equipment, house trailers, manufactured homes, stores, commercial manufactured units, gasoline canopies and gasoline pumps, car washes, advertising signs, billboards, structures from which products are vended, and tents and canopies which are in place more than two consecutive days during any calendar quarter). "STRUCTURAL ALTERATION" shall mean any change in the supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, floor joists, or roof joists, or in the exterior walls. "SUBDIVISION, MAJOR" Any subdivision that is not considered minor. “SUBDIVISION, MINOR” Any subdivision meeting the following criteria are minor plats:  a) The subdivision will result in the creation of no more than four (4) lots, and may include a remnant lot that has not been subdivided in the past five years; b) The subdivision does not involve extension or substantial alterations of public utilities; c) The subdivision does not require the dedication of public right-of-way; d) Any new or residual parcels shall meet the minimum lot size requirements as expressed in the Zoning Ordinance. “TAVERN” shall mean a drinking establishment having a seating capacity of less than 40 persons conducted consistent with Section 6-2-51 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses (excluding dancing and entertainment). "THROUGH STREET" or "HIGHWAY" shall mean every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrance to which vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected. It generally is radial or circumferential in relation to present heavily populated areas and is intended to provide continuous, wide, direct and adequate routes designed to insure the future stability of the expanding urban areas within Augusta and the region. They usually include all state and federal highways not otherwise designated in the Master Plan. "TOURIST HOUSE" shall mean a private dwelling that supplies temporary accommodations to overnight guests for a fee which may or may not include the preparation of meals. "TRANSITION HOUSING" shall be housing designed for and/or used for occupancy predominantly by a series of short term tenants. For the purpose of administering and enforcing Section 26-1 (g) of this Ordinance short term shall be defined as less than 120 consecutive days. The following uses and similar uses shall be considered to be transition housing: temporary quarters for occupancy by visitors to area hospitals, a facility for victims of physical abuse, and temporary quarters for tenants receiving assistance from public or private social programs. "TRAVEL TRAILER PARK" deleted April 2013 see Section 28-E – Recreational Vehicle Parks  2- 16  "TREE" shall mean any object of natural growth. "VETERINARIAN CLINIC" shall mean a facility that provides medical treatment for diseases and injuries to animals. A veterinarian clinic may have some indoor boarding of animals that is incidental to and associated with the primary goal of the facility which is providing care and treatment to animals. “WHOLESALER” – shall mean person or firm that buys large quantities of goods from various producers and resells them to retailers. "YARD" shall mean an unoccupied area of a lot, open and unobstructed from the ground to the sky, except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance. "YARD, FRONT" shall mean an open space extending the full width of a lot and of a depth measured horizontally at right angles from the front lot line to the front of the structure. "YARD SALE" shall mean an infrequent event (less than three (3) times per calendar year and lasting no more than three days) conducted on property in R-Zoned districts where used household goods and personal items are offered for sale to the general public by the owner or tenant of the property or by a group of owners or tenants. Holding three (3) or more yard sales during a calendar year at the same address shall be considered to be a retail use and the property owner shall be required to obtain a suitable zoning classification prior to continuing the activity. "YARD, SIDE" shall mean an open space extending along the side line of a lot between the front yard and the rear yard and of a width measured horizontally at right angles from the side lot line to the side of the structure. "YARD, REAR" shall mean an open space extending the full width of a lot of a depth measured horizontally at right angles from the rear lot line to the rear of the structure. Amended April 2020 – Dumpter Amended November 2019 – removed “no restaurant component” for breweries/             distilleries Amended August 2018 – Mini-Warehouses and Lodging/Boarding House Amended March 2018 – Subdivision, Major and Minor Amended February 2018 – Flagpole lots Amended August 2017 – Breweries and Distilleries etc. Amended June 2017 – Amplified Entertainment, Background Music, Low Volume,  Nightclub, Permittee, Special Entertainment Permit Amended January 2017 – Accessory Building, Accessory Use, Breezeway, Building, Building Height, Building – Main, Dwelling and Lodging, Rooming, Boarding House        Amended March 2016 – Greenspace, Open Space, Recreation Space & Street Lighting Amended April 2, 2013 – delete Travel Trailers and Travel Trailer Parks Amended March 5, 2013 – Day Care Centers, Parochial School, Private School Amended June 2012 – Funeral Home Amended August 2011 – Drinking Establishments Amended July 2011- Café, Restaurant, Tavern Amended January 2008 – Accessory Buildings & Recreational Vehicles   3- 1  GENERAL PROVISIONS  SECTION 3  AREA AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS  3-1 Area and Setback Requirements: Except as hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be erected on a lot unless such building or structure, enlargement, addition, or alteration conforms with the area regulations and setback requirements of the zone in which it is located. 3-2 Reduction of Lot Area: No lot shall be reduced or diminished so that the yards, other open space, or total lot area shall be smaller than prescribed by this Ordinance nor shall the density of housing units be increased in any manner except in conformity with the regulations herein established. 3-3 Recorded Lots Less Than Minimum Area: Lots of Record at the time of enactment of this Ordinance, which have less than the minimum requirements for an R-Zone, may nevertheless be used for uses permitted in respective zones if all standards other than those related to lot area can be met. All other lots in an R-Zone shall be in accordance with the respective zone requirements. 3-4 Yards Applying to Only One Building: No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is hereafter provided around any other building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this Ordinance, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon a building is to be erected. 3-5 Only One Main Building on a Lot: Every building hereafter shall be located on a lot herein defined. In no case shall there be more than one main residential building and its accessory building on one lot. Row dwellings or a unit group of dwellings may be considered as one main residential building. 3-6 Intersection Visibility and Corner Setback: In all zones, except B-2, LI, and HI Zones, no construction, fence, hedge, bushes, or other obstruction to a clear view which extends over three (3) feet in height shall be permitted at any corner of intersecting streets where either or both of the streets are less than sixty (60) feet in width within the area formed by the legs of a triangle whose apex is a point of intersection of the centerline of the traveled roadways and the legs of which are sixty (60) feet in length along the centerlines, and the hypotenuse of which is the line connecting the end of said legs. Exceptions shall be made for utility pole lines, lighting standards, post office boxes, traffic signs, and trees, the branches of which are kept trimmed to a height of eight (8) feet above the ground. 3-7 Front Yard on a Through Lot: At each end of a through lot there shall be a front yard depth required by this Ordinance for the zone in which each street frontage is located. 3- 2 3-8 Group Housing: DELETED  3-9 Building Setbacks: DELETED  Building Setbacks: On every road, street, or highway, which conforms to the definition of arterial, collector, industrial or major streets or highways, no building, structure, or obstruction or part of a building or structure or obstruction of any character shall be erected on any land abutting the road, street, or highway nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of such road, street, or highway. On all other streets the minimum setback shall be 30 feet., except that in the various zones the minimum setback may be reduced or increased as set forth under the provisions for those specific zones. This setback shall not apply to any sign advertising the principal use of the property on which such sign is erected or placed; provided, however, that no part of any such sign or its supporting structure shall be placed nearer than ten (10) feet from the right-of-way line of any road, street, or highway. Off Premises Outdoor Advertising Signs as defined in this Ordinance, shall not be thus exempted shall meet all setbacks required for other structures as provided elsewhere in this Ordinance. No sign of any kind shall be located within any setback required under Section 3-12 of this Ordinance. 3-11 Building Setbacks: These regulations regarding building setbacks shall be applicable to any new roads, streets, or highways hereafter laid out to the same extent as to roads, streets, or highways in existence and of public record at the time of the adoption of this Ordinance. They shall likewise be applicable to any roads, streets, or highways or areas which have been or may be designated as arterial highways on any Thoroughfare Plan, adopted by Augusta, Georgia or by the United States Department of Transportation or State Governmental Authority showing the location, or proposed location, of roads, streets, or thoroughfares in Augusta, Georgia The only sign of any kind shall be the standard highway sign marking system. 3-12 Special Building Setbacks: No building, structure, or part thereof or obstruction of any character including the minimum required off-street parking spaces for a  land use included in Section 4 of this Ordinance, shall be erected, or altered, regardless of the use thereon, on any lot:  (a)* Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line on either side of Fifteenth Street from Wrightsboro Road to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. (b)* DELETED. (c)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way line on either side of Claussen Road from a point 1000 feet south of its intersection with the CSX Railroad line south to the intersection with Stevens Creek Road. (d)* Nearer than one hundred (100) feet from the centerline of Windsor Spring Road from Tobacco Road to Patterson Bridge Road. (e)* DELETED (f)* DELETED  (g) DELETED (h)* Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line on either side of Bertram Road. (i)* DELETED. 3- 3   (j) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line on either side of Berckmans Road from Washington Road to Wheeler Road. (k) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of either side of Wrightsboro Road from Highland Avenue to Fifteenth Street. (l)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way line of Pleasant Home Road from Washington Road to where Professional Pkwy. intersects. (m) DELETED (n)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way line of Flowing Wells Road from Wrightsboro Road to Frontage Road. (o) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Stevens Creek Road from Frontage Road to the Columbia County Line. (p) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Marks Church Road from Wrightsboro Road to Wheeler Road. (q)* DELETED (r)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way line of Meadowbrook Drive from Windsor Spring Road to Deans Bridge Road. (s)* Deleted - (t)* Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Milledgeville Road from the east intersection with Gordon Highway (U. S. Highway #78, #278) to the west intersection with Gordon Highway (U. S. Highway #78, #278) near Madrid Drive. (u)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way line of Phinizy Road from U. S. Highway #25 to State Highway #56. (v)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way line of Rosier Road from Windsor Spring Road to U. S. Highway #25. (w)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way line of Barton Chapel Road from Wrightsboro Road to Gordon Highway. (x)* Deleted -  (y)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way line of Brown Road from U. S. Highway #25 to State Highway #56. (z)* Nearer than forty-five feet from the right-of-way line of Willis Foreman Road from U. S. Highway #1 to U. S. Highway #25. (aa) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Hephzibah- McBean Road from Story Mill Road to GA Highway 56. (bb) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of old Waynesboro Road from GA Highway 56 to Burke County Line. (cc) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Powell Road from Wrightsboro Road to Gordon Highway. (dd) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Belair Road, from Wrightsboro Road to Wrightsboro Road. (ee) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Morgan Road from Tobacco road to US Highway #1. (ff) Nearer than 70 feet from the right-of-way of S.R. 56 from Tobacco Road to Bennock Mill Road. 3- 4                          Amended July 2016 – Section 3-12(s) Amended October 2015 –Section 3-12 (l) - amended Amended January 2015 – Section 3-12 (x) -deleted Amended August 2008 – Section 3-12 (ff) Amended August 2008 – Section 3-12 (f) (g) & (m) - deleted Amended January 2005 – Section 3-12 Amended August 2004 - Section 3-12 (s)  3 A- 1 3-A Outdoor/Street Lighting  3-A-1 Purpose(s) of the Regulation The purpose and intent of this section is to provide a regulatory strategy for outdoor lighting that will permit reasonable use of outdoor lighting for nighttime safety, utility, security, productivity, enjoyment and commerce; curtail and reverse the degradation of the nighttime visual environment and the night sky; preserve the dark night sky for astronomy; minimize glare, obtrusive light and artificial sky glow by limiting outdoor lighting that is misdirected, excessive or unnecessary; conserve energy and resources to the greatest extent possible; and help to protect the natural environment from the damaging effects of night lighting from man-made sources. 3-A-2 Applicability 1. All new development, site and subdivision plans, must include locational information regarding street lights and other outdoor lighting to be installed. All street lighting must comply with the latest edition of Augusta’s Street and Road Design Technical Manual and be installed concurrently with other public utilities. 2. All outdoor illuminating devices must be installed in accordance with this section of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. 3. All shielded light fixtures shall be installed and maintained as fully shielded fixtures as shown below. Examples of local lighting fixtures on streets and pedestrian facility are presented below (Table 1). Table 1: Lighting Fixtures Unacceptable (Non-cutoff) Acceptable (Full-cutoff) Floodlights Fixtures  Streetlights and dusk to dawn security fixtures Streetlights  Wall packs Wall Packs  Colonial-Type Colonial-Type  Drop-lens canopy fixtures Flush-mounted canopy fixtures   Sag-lens/Drop-lens with exposed light source    3 A- 2 3-A-3 Site and Development Plan Requirements 1. Type and number of luminary fixtures including cut off characteristics and picture. 2. Manufacturer cut sheets are permitted. 3. Lamp source (bulb type), lumen output and wattage 3-A-4 Technical Standards 1. All luminaires mounted on or recessed into the lower surface of service station canopies and parking structures must be fully shielded and use flat lenses. 2. Illuminance levels for the interior of parking structures, where interior lighting is visible from outside the structure, must conform to the IESNA recommendation (RP-20). 3. Lights must not be mounted on the top or sides of a canopy and the sides of a canopy must not be illuminated. 4. Security lighting must be directed toward the targeted area, and not adjacent properties. 5. Sensor activated lighting must be located in such a manner as to prevent direct glare and lighting into properties of others or into a public right-of-way, and the light must not be triggered by activity off the property. 6. Pedestrian Path Lighting  Lighting posts must not exceed 16 feet in height from the finished grade. 7. Commercial Parking Areas  All lighting fixtures servicing parking lots, except floodlights, must be cutoff fixtures, directed downward and not toward buildings or other areas.  The minimum illumination level for a parking lot is 0.4 foot-candles at grade level and the ratio of the average illumination to the minimum illumination must not exceed 4:1.  Floodlights must be aimed or shielded to minimize up light.  Light poles used in parking lots must not exceed 35 feet in height. 8. All plans and construction details must satisfy Augusta-Richmond County Code Title 7 Building and Construction, Article 3 Street lighting. 9. Mounted height, total lumens (in foot candles) of all fixtures, and total square footage illuminated area (Table 2). Table 2: Lighting Standards Area Average Min. or Max. Building Entrance 1 foot candle 5 foot candle max Sidewalks .5 foot candle 1.5 foot candle max Public Parking Lot .8 foot candle .4 foot candle min Private Parking Lot .5 foot candle .13 foot candle min        AMENDED – DECEMBER 2017 ADOPTED – MARCH 2016  3 B- 1  Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area  3-B-1 Purpose of the Regulations  Open space requirements are intended to assure opportunities for outdoor recreation or relaxation for residents and to ensure development proposals avoid unnecessary impacts on natural resources in the nearby vicinity. The standards work to ensure a portion of the site not covered by buildings is of adequate size, shape, improvement and location to be usable for outdoor recreation or relaxation, and to ensure the preservation of significant natural resources within the project. Required open space benefits the public health and is an important aspect of livability and sustainability. Open space is particularly important in areas of more intensive residential and commercial development. Open space required by this section may be calculated and used in a variety of ways, including natural areas for promotion of water quality, wildlife and ecological functions, protection of environmental sensitive lands such as floodplain, floodways, wetlands and riparian buffers, parks, gardens, landscaped medians and landscaped shoulders, squares, village greens, courtyards, or recreational space provided the use is consistent with the requirements of this section. 3-B-2 Applicability  All residential development in every residentially zoned districts. Open and Recreation space must meet one of four options based on total land area. Options Open Space Recreation Space Conservation * 40% min /30% min 10% min of Open Space Planned** 25% See note at ** Mixed Use *** 20% See note at *** Compact**** 10% min 10% min of Open Space  *Applicants seeking Conservation Subdivision must meet requirements of Section 28-D Conservation Subdivision of the Zoning Ordinance. **See Section 13-9 and Section 19-6-c) of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance ***See Section 25-G of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. ****All R- zoning classifications not otherwise specified and Manufactured Home Parks per Section 27-6-(l) of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance   3-B-3 Permitted and Prohibited Uses of Open Space  Permitted Uses Prohibited Uses Conservation areas for natural, archeological or historical resources Roads, parking lots, and impervious surfaces  3 B- 2 Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, floodplain, floodways, riparian buffers, or similar conservation-oriented areas Agricultural or forestry activities and commercial livestock operation, for something other than personal use Stormwater (pipes and ponds) and wastewater control measures and all easements do not count towards total open space Passive and active recreation (impervious surface limited to 10% of total open space) All pavement within right-of-ways do not count towards total open space; however, grassed areas outside of pavement and within right-of-ways does count toward open space requirements if it is maintained by the HOA Areas designed for water quality, water bodies, lakes, and ponds (limited to 50% of total open space)  Community gardens, pocket parks, playgrounds, pedestrian and multipurpose trails squares, village greens, courtyards, and other similar neighborhood uses, and community related facilities and uses. 3-B-4 Ownership and Maintenance of Open Space  A plan for the ownership and maintenance of the open space shall be submitted at the time of the Development Plan submittal. Ownership and maintenance responsibility of the open space shall also be noted on the Final Plat for the subdivision. A copy of the recorded ownership and maintenance document shall be submitted prior to Final Plat approval. The open space shall be owned and maintained by the equitable owners as outlined below:  Ownership and Maintenance Conveyance and Dissolution City and Land Trust Open space shall be conveyed to City, land trust or property owner's association in fee simple, without encumbrances, such as utilities, drainage, and easements. Open space may be deeded to City or CSRA Land Trust or any other recognized land trust., or similar organization, within the state of Georgia who will take full responsibility for its maintenance. (Note: The City or a land trust is under no obligation to take ownership of this land.) Property Owner's Association If property owner's association is dissolved, open space will be deeded to another entity that shall be responsible for maintenance and upkeep. If no offer is accepted, open space shall be deeded to City. Such costs shall become a lien on all The open space may be held in common ownership by a property owners’ association. Such ownership is subject to all Georgia Code § 44-3-221 and 235 provisions. 3 B- 3 If a Property Owners Association takes ownership of the open space, membership in the property owners’ association shall be mandatory for all purchasers of lots within the subdivision and their successors in title. subdivision properties. See 3-B-4-4. 1. Property owner's association. The property owner's association bylaws or covenants, at a minimum, shall contain the following provisions:  Responsibility for insurance, taxes, maintenance of the open space.  Instant mandatory membership and assessment of all lot purchasers and successors.  Conditions and timing of transferring control from developer to lot owners.  Guarantee association will not be dissolved without the advance approval of the City. 2. The developer shall record the necessary legal instrument to accomplish protection of the open space prior to, or concurrent with, the recording of the subdivision Final Plat. The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on the use of the open space. These restrictions shall include all restrictions contained in this Section, as well as any further restrictions the applicant chooses to place on the use of the open space or the City imposes as a condition of zoning. 3. An open space management plan shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a development/site plan review approval. The open space management plan shall:  Allocate responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the open space and any facilities located thereon, including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital improvements;  Estimate the costs and staffing requirements needed for maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the open space and outlines the means by which such funding will be obtained or provided;  Provide that any changes to the plan be approved by the City; and  Provide for enforcement of the plan. 4. In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the open space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the City of Augusta may assume responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the Property Owners’ Association, or to the individual property owners that make up the Property Owners’ Association, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all subdivision properties. 3-B-5 Delineation of Open Space  Open space will be delineated on all site and development plans based on the following requirements:  1. The required open space must be accessible to the largest practicable number of dwelling units / subdivision lots within the development. Non-adjoining open space lots must be provided with safe, convenient access to the open space from a public or private road with a minimum of 25 feet of frontage on said public or private road. 2. Where feasible, open space should join any neighboring area of open space, other protected areas and/or non-protected natural areas. 3 B- 4 3. In subdivisions, land provided for open space and not proposed for improvement by the developer shall be deeded to a qualified property owners’ association or the City of Augusta upon the approval of the final plat containing said land and shall be used exclusively for open space purposes. The qualified property owners’ association shall be established under the laws of Georgia and shall provide for the mandatory membership of all the owners of property within the subdivision who shall be responsible for the perpetual maintenance and function of the open space areas and all uses or facilities therein. The association shall have the authority and duty to assess its members for such maintenance and improvements as set forth in the instrument creating the association. All covenants shall be recorded simultaneously with the final subdivision plat. 4. In subdivisions, land provided for recreational uses within the dedicated open space and not proposed for improvement by the developer shall be deeded to a qualified property owners’ association or the City of Augusta upon the approval of the final plat containing said land and shall be used exclusively for recreational purposes. The qualified property owners’ association shall be established under the laws of Georgia and shall provide for the mandatory membership of all the owners of property within the subdivision who shall be responsible for the perpetual maintenance and function of the recreational areas and all uses or facilities therein. The association shall have the authority and duty to assess its members for such maintenance and improvements as set forth in the instrument creating the association. All covenants shall be recorded simultaneously with the final subdivision plat. 5. The City of Augusta may lease or sell land reserved for public parks to a qualified property owners’ association with a deed restriction that the land be used exclusively for open space or public recreational purposes in perpetuity. The organization of a qualified property owners’ association and its adequate financing for the discharge of its responsibilities shall be assured through acceptable private deed covenants running with the land or other such documents as approved the City of Augusta. 6. Undeveloped and natural open space shall remain undeveloped and natural except for the provision of non-motorized passive recreation opportunities such as running, walking, biking, and similar outdoor activities. "pocket parks" and "greens" may be constructed and maintained within open space areas. A "pocket park" or "green" is a landscaped area larger than 0.33 acres constructed for community gathering or play, or visual enhancement (Figure 1). "Pocket parks" or "greens" shall not exceed ten percent of the total open space. 3 B- 5                             ADOPTED – UPDATED VERSION – JANUARY 2017  ADOPTED – MARCH 2016 Figure 1: Pocket Park  3 B- 1   3 B- 1  4 - 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS  SECTION 4  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING  Purpose: In order to relieve traffic congestion in the streets, to minimize any effects of off-street parking areas on adjacent properties, and to ensure the proper and uniform development of off- street parking areas throughout Augusta, off-street parking and loading spaces for every use shall be provided in accordance with the standards established in this section. 4-1 General Requirements for Off-Street Parking: Following are the general requirements for this section: (a) All off-street automobile storage or parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or lane. Except for single-family or two- family dwellings fronting on a minor or local street, no required off-street parking facilities shall be arranged so as to require backing from the space directly onto a public street. (b) General off-street parking plans shall be submitted as part of a proposed site plan. Such plans shall show the proposed layout of all parking areas, the total number of off-street parking spaces to be provided, and the dimensions of the typical individual parking space. Off-street parking plans including driveways and curb cuts shall be approved by the Planning and Development Department Staff. (c) Individual parking spaces, except for compact parking, shall have the minimum   dimensions of nine (9) feet in width and eighteen (18) feet in length unless off-   street parking is to be provided in common parking bays or lots. Common parking   bays or lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements illustrated in the   following chart. (d)  Credit for Compact Parking – Up to ten percent (10% ) of the off-street parking  spaces for a use requiring 25 spaces or more off-street parking spaces may be  designed for compact cars subject to the following conditions:  1. Parking spaces for compact cars shall be located so as to be as convenient as parking spaces for larger cars and shall be grouped or placed in clusters rather than being scattered simply to solve parking layout difficulties. 2. Each compact car parking space shall be clearly and distinctly marked with pavement markings and signage denoting “compact car only”, and such parking spaces may be reduced to eight (8) feet by sixteen (16) feet stall sizes. 3. Should compact car parking spaces be exclusively utilized on either side of a drive aisle, the drive aisle may be reduced in width at the discretion of the Executive Director. 4 - 2       (e) All common off-street parking bays shall be graded to provide adequate drainage and shall be paved with an all weather material or equivalent surface subject to the approval of the City Engineer. (f) Along those lot lines of an off-street parking area which abuts a residential district, a solid screen (i.e. fence, wall, or berm) of no less than six (6) feet in height shall be erected. The screen shall conform to the Augusta Tree Ordinance and continue for the entire length of the property line abutting a residential district. (g) A curb cut shall be located as far as practical from the intersection of the right-of- way lines of two streets, and no curb cut shall be permitted within fifty (50) feet of an intersection. Each parcel that is in ownership separate from the ownership of contiguous parcels shall be entitled to at least one curb cut per street front. Except in single-family residential zones, curb cuts shall be at least 100 feet apart where practical. Except in single-family residential zones, shared driveways are encouraged, and where practical a driveway that is not a shared driveway shall be at least fifty (50) feet from a property line. (h) Any light used to illuminate required parking areas shall be arranged so that the light is reflected away from adjacent properties. (i) No sign (permanent or temporary), light standard, or screening material shall be placed so as to inhibit the orderly use of a parking facility or in a manner which reduces the number of usable parking spaces. No sign, light standard, or  screening material shall be placed so that it obstructs visibility for drivers or pedestrians. (j) All off-street parking spaces located in common parking bays or lots shall be marked by a durable painted stripe designating no less than the required minimum parking space area. (k) No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall be permitted in conjunction with off- street parking areas except minor repair on vehicles owned by the occupant or resident of the principal use for which the off-street parking is intended. (l) If the required off-street parking space cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot, tract, or parcel on which the principal use is conducted, the applicant may be permitted to provide such space on other off-street property, provided such space lies within 300 feet of the property line of the principal use. Such space may be parking provided for other uses, provided the utilization of the parking area by the proposed uses does not conflict with the activities associated with the primary use, and that the applicant obtains written authorization for utilization of the parking facility on a continuing basis. (m) The provisions of the Augusta Tree Ordinance related to parking lots (Augusta Code Section 8-4-1) shall be complied with. (n) No required parking may be located within any “special setback” area per Section 3- 12 of this Ordinance. http://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=images&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CAcQjRw&url=http://www.myparkingsign.com/parking-area-reserved-for-compact-car-only-sign/sku-k-2720&ei=UOJdVfuLHpLugwT72YHAAw&bvm=bv.93756505,d.eXY&psig=AFQjCNGaK7cc5POkckMEHEvtJXL4sTDZPg&ust=1432302497468725 http://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=images&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CAcQjRw&url=http://www.safetysign.com/products/p3885/compact-car-parking-only-sign&ei=UOJdVfuLHpLugwT72YHAAw&bvm=bv.93756505,d.eXY&psig=AFQjCNGaK7cc5POkckMEHEvtJXL4sTDZPg&ust=1432302497468725 http://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=images&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CAcQjRw&url=http://www.alphabetsigns.com/signs/c/ST07.html&ei=h-ddVdeKMYuxggSGh4D4Cg&bvm=bv.93756505,d.eXY&psig=AFQjCNEbIeclUmdBX1LsMhIfh2NWFLT2PA&ust=1432303900434233 https://hdsupplysolutions.com/1/1/53871-parking-stop-block-stencil-compact-car.html  4 - 3                        GROUP I: STANDARD CARS GROUP II: COMPACT CARS  ° ANGLE OF PARK ° ANGLE OF PARK DIMENSION KEY 0° 45° 60° 75° 90° 0 ° 45° 60° 75 ° 9 0 ° Stall Width A 8’-6” 9’-0” 9’-0” 9’-0” 9’-0” 7’-6” 8’-0” 8’-0” 8’-0” 8’-0” Stall Depth B 24’-0” 18’-0” 18’-0” 18’-0 18’-0 22’-0” 16’-0” 16’-0” 16’-0” 16’-0” Module, Wall To Interlock C - 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” - 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” Module, Interlocking D - 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” - 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” Module, Interlocking To Curb Face E - 58’-0” 58’-0” 58’-0” 58’-0” - 58’-0” 58’-0” 58’-0” 58’-0” Bumper Overhang (Typical) F 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” Aisle Width (One-Way) G 12’-0” 18’-0” 19’-0” 20’-0” 24’-0” 12’-0” 18’-0” 22’-0” 22’-0” 24’-0” Aisle Width (Two-Way) G 24’-0” 22’-0” 22’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 22’-0” 22’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” Cross Aisle / Access Drive (One-Way) H 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” Cross Aisle / Access Drive (One-Way) H 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” Entrance Drive (One-Way) I  Note: Driveway width and all access shall be in accordance with the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) and Augusta-Richmond County standards. Entrance Drive (Two-Way) I  Last updated: July 24, 2015  4 - 4  4-2 Off-Street Parking Requirements for all Areas Except Central Business District (CBD): Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided with vehicular access to a public street and shall be equal to or greater than the minimum requirements for   Land Use Parking Requirements  (a) Dwelling Structures   (1) One and Two Family Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit. (1.1) One Family Attached (1.2) One Family Detached (1.3) Two Family Duplex (1.4) Townhouses/Patio Homes 2.25 – 2.5 per dwelling unit 2.25 – 2.5 per dwelling unit 2.25 – 2.5 per dwelling unit 2.25 – 2.5 per dwelling unit  (2) Multifamily, efficiency   and one bedrooms One and one-half (1.5) spaces for each dwelling unit. (2.1) Multifamily, two or    more bedrooms Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit. (3) Personal Care Homes with six (6)   or less individuals who reside there   and receive care One (1) space for each three (3) individuals who reside there and receive care, one (1) space for an on-site care provider, and one (1) space for visitors (4) Fraternity and Sorority   Houses One (1) space for each two (2) beds or one (1) space for each five (5) members, whichever is greater. (5) Manufactured Home Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit. (6) Lodging or Boarding House One (1) space for each two (2) individuals in residence and one (1) space for the owner/resident manager (b) Public Assembly (1) Churches and other places   of worship One (1) space for each three (3) seats per maximum capacity of the main sanctuary. (2) Private clubs, lodges and   fraternal buildings not   providing overnight   accommodations. The number of spaces required shall be determined by the Planning and Development Department staff on the basis of the type of use proposed, its intended occupancy, and seating arrangement. (3) Theaters, auditoriums,   coliseums, stadiums,   and similar places of   Assembly  One (1) space for each four (4) seats based on the maximum capacity. (4) Libraries, museums One (1) space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area. (5) Schools, by type:   4 - 5 Land Use Parking Requirements   Elementary and Junior High Two (2) space per classroom at maximum occupancy. Senior High Seven (7) spaces per classroom at maximum occupancy. Colleges and trade   Schools One (1) space per two students at maximum occupancy. (6) Kindergarten or day care   centers One (1) space for each four (4) children at maximum occupancy. (7) Skating rinks, exhibition   halls, pool rooms, and other   places of amusement or   assembly without fixed   seating arrangements One (1) space for each 200 square feet of floor area intended for public use. (8) Bowling Alleys Four (4) spaces per alley. (9) Recreational facilities not   elsewhere specified The number of spaces required shall be determined by the Planning and Development Department staff on the basis of the type of use proposed, its intended occupancy, and seating arrangements. (c) Health Facilities  (1) Hospitals One and one-half (1.5) spaces for each bed. (2) Sanitariums, nursing homes,   personal care homes, group   Homes, and similar institutional    uses. One (1) space for each three (3) beds, or one space per three (3) residents whichever is appropriate at maximum occupancy. (3) Medical, dental, and health   clinics and offices One (1) space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area. (4) Mortuaries and funeral   parlors One space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area (5) Veterinary clinics, kennels,   and animal hospitals   One (1) space for each 200 square feet of enclosed area. (d) Commercial Establishments  (1) Automobile repair   establishments One (1) space for each 300 square feet of floor space. (2) Convenience stores (gas/food   marts) and similar establishments. One (1) space for each 150 square feet of floor area. (3) Automobile washing and   cleaning establishments One (1) space for each customer vehicle the establishment is capable of accommodating. (4) Automobile sales (new and   used) and manufactured home   Sales One (1) space for each 4000 square feet of land area for the first 20,000 square feet plus one (1) space for each additional 10,000 square feet of land area. (5) Food stores except for conven-  ience stores One (1) space for each 200 square feet of retail area, plus one (1) space for each 1,000 square feet of area used for storage or work. 4 - 6 Land Use Parking Requirements (6) General retail sales,   commercial or personal   service establishments One (1) space for each 200 square feet of retail sales area, plus one (1) space for each 1000 square feet of remaining leasable area used for storage or work area. (7) Appliance Stores One (1) space for each 200 square feet of retail sales area plus one (1) space for each 500 square feet of remaining area used for storage or work area. (8) Furniture Stores One (1) space for each 750 square feet of retail sales area, plus one (1) space for each 1,000 square feet of remaining leasable area used for storage or work area. (9) Restaurants, by-type:   Fast Food One (1) space for each 75 square feet of patron use area, plus one (1) space for every four (4) employees   Sit-down One (1) space for each 50 square feet of patron use area, plus one (1 space for every four (4) employees   Sit-down and Brewpub  One (1) space for each 50 square feet of patron use area, plus one (1 space for every four (4) employees (10) Night clubs, taverns,   lounges, and similar   Nightclubs, Taverns,  Lounges, Micro, Nano & Pico  Breweries, Micro, Nano & Pico  Distilleries and similar   Establishments    Establishments that provide   Amplified Entertainment  One (1) space per 100 square feet of gross floor area. (11) Office buildings except   medical, dental, and health   clinics and branch banks One (1) space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area. (12) Branch banks One (1) space for each 300 square feet of floor area plus five (5) inbound reservoir spaces and one (1) outbound reservoir space for each drive-in window. (13) Bank and other financial    institutions, except branch    banks One (1) space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area. (14) Shopping Centers with more    than 50,000 square feet of    Gross leasable area 4.5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area. (15) Mini warehouses Four (4) spaces for office and one (1) space per truck  4 - 7 Land Use Parking Requirements (16) Hotels, Hotels Extended Stay,   Motels, Motels Extended Stay One (1) space for each room plus one space for each two employees, plus additional spaces as required for other functions such as bar, restaurant, etc. (17) Boarding and Rooming   Houses, Dormitories One (1) space for each guest or sleeping room or one (1) space for each 150 square feet of sleeping area whichever is greater. (e) Industrial Establishments   (1) Manufacturing and industrial   establishments One space for each 2,500 square feet of gross floor area. (2) Wholesale trade establishments,   warehouses except mini-   Warehouses One (1) space for each 2,500 square feet of gross floor area. (f) Uses Not Specified. In the case of a use not specifically mentioned in Section 4-2 the requirements for off-street parking facilities shall be determined by the Staff. Such determination shall be based upon the requirements set for the most comparable use specified in Section 4-2. (g) Reduction in Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces. The Planning Commission may, at its discretion, reduce the minimum number of parking spaces required for a specific use by Section 4-2(a) through 4-2(e) above provided that sufficient evidence is presented justifying the need for reduction in the requirements and every effort has been made to provide off-street parking in accordance with the stipulations of this section. (h) Credit for Certain On-Street Parking. Outside the Central Business District designated, marked, on-street parking spaces located contiguous to a development may reduce the off-street parking requirement at a rate of one-half off-street space per on-street space. 4-3 Off-Street Parking Requirements for the Central Business District (CBD): Off-street parking shall be provided in the Central Business District in accordance with the following regulations: (a) For the purpose of this section, the Central Business District shall be defined as the area bounded by the following streets and including all lots or parcels fronting on said streets: (1) Levee Road from Gordon Highway to Fifteenth Street; (2) Fifteenth Street from Levee Road to Greene Street; (3) Greene Street from Fifteenth Street to Thirteenth Street; (4) Thirteenth Street from Greene Street to Telfair Street; (5) Telfair Street from Thirteenth Street to Gordon Highway; (6) Gordon Highway from Telfair Street to Levee Road. (b) Public or semipublic parking lots and garages available for general use and metered curb parking spaces within 300 feet of the proposed use may be applied toward the total off-street parking spaces needed. (c) All provisions set forth in Sections 4-1 and 4-2 shall apply to the above described area except as follows:   4 - 8  Land Use Parking Requirements (1) Restaurants, night clubs,   taverns, lounges, and similar   Establishments One (1) space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area. (2) Office buildings except   medical, dental, and   health clinics; and branch   Banks One (1) space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area. (3) Hotels and Motels One (1) space for each three (3) rooms plus additional space as required for other functions such as bar, restaurant, etc. (4) Retail stores, department       stores, commercial or personal    service establishments except    food stores One (1) space for each 400 square feet of gross leasable area. (d) The Planning Commission may, at its discretion, reduce the minimum number of parking spaces required for a specific use by Section 4-3(c) provided that sufficient evidence is presented justifying the need for a reduction in the requirements and every effort has been made to provide off-street parking in accordance with the stipulations of this section. (e) Nonconforming Parking and Loading in the Central Business  District (CBD). All uses are exempt from the parking requirements. (The success of the proposed parking regulation amendment is dependent on the implementation of a Parking Management Plan.) 4-4 General Requirements for Off-Street Loading: Off-street loading and unloading space shall be provided as hereinafter required by this Ordinance. For the purposes of this section, the following general requirements are specified:  (a) The term "off-street loading and unloading space" shall mean an area having the minimum dimensions of 14 feet in height, 12 feet in width, and 50 feet in length plus adequate maneuvering area to facilitate entry into and exit from the space. The Planning Commission may, upon sufficient demonstration that a particular loading space will be used exclusively by small trucks or vans, reduce the minimum dimension requirements accordingly. (b) Each required off-street loading space shall have direct access to a street or have a driveway which provides satisfactory ingress and egress for trucks. The width of the access way shall be at least 25 feet wide and shall have a minimum radius at the curb line of 25 feet. (c) Each required off-street loading space shall be so designated as to avoid undue interference with other vehicular or rail access, use of public streets, or other public transport systems. (d) All off-street loading facilities, including spaces and maneuvering area, shall be adequately drained and paved with an all-weather material or equivalent surface subject to the approval of the Public Works Department. 4 - 9 (e) Along those lot lines of the loading area which abut a residential district, a solid screen of no less than five (5) feet in height shall be erected. (f) Any light used to illuminate required off-street loading areas shall be arranged so that the light is reflected away from adjacent properties. No light standard shall be erected within fifteen (15) feet of any curb line of a public street. (g) All off-street loading areas and their respective maneuvering areas shall be set back not less than ten (10) feet from a public right-of-way. (h) No portion of the area required for off-street parking as specified in Section 4-2 shall be used for off-street loading, unloading, or maneuvering space. 4-5 Off-Street Loading Requirements for All Use Zones: Off-street loading and unloading space shall be provided with access to a public street and shall be equal to or greater than the minimum requirements set forth as follows:  Land Use Loading Requirements (a) Dwelling Structures (1) Hotels and Motels One (1) space for each 20,000 square feet of floor area. (b) Public Assembly (1) Private clubs, lodges, and   fraternal buildings not   providing overnight   Accommodations One (1) space for each 20,000 square feet of floor area. (2) Theaters, auditoriums,   coliseums, stadiums, and   similar places of assembly One (1) space for each structure having more than 100,000 square feet of floor area. (3) Schools, all types One (1) space for each structure having more than 100,000 square feet of floor area. (4) Bowling Alleys One (1) space for each structure having more than 20,000 square feet of floor area. (c) Health Facilities (1) Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing   homes, and similar institutional   Uses One (1) space for each 100,000 square feet of floor area. (d) Commercial Establishments (1) Food stores One (1) space for the first 10,000 square feet of floor area plus one (1) space for each additional 30,000 square feet of floor area. (2) Restaurants, night clubs,   taverns, lounges, and similar   establishments  One (1) space for the first 10,000 square feet of floor area plus one (1) space for each additional 30,000 square feet of floor area. (3) Office buildings except   medical, dental, and health   Clinics One (1) space for structures between 30,000 square feet and 100,000 square feet of floor area plus one (1) space for each additional 100,000 square feet of floor area. (4) Retail stores, department   stores, commercial or personal   service establishments, except   food stores One (1) space for first 10,000 square feet of floor area plus one (1) space for each additional 50,000 square feet of floor area. 4 - 10 (5) Shopping Centers One (1) space for each 50,000 square feet of floor area. (e) Industrial Establishments   (1) Manufacturing and industrial   establishments One (1) space for each 40,000 square feet of floor area. (2) Wholesale trade   establishments One (1) space for each 50,000 square feet of floor area. (3) Transport terminal facilities One (1) space for each 30,000 square feet of floor area. (f) Uses Not Specified. In the case of a use not specifically mentioned in Section 4-5, the requirements for off-street loading facilities shall be determined by the Planning Commission. Such determination shall be based upon the requirements set forth for the most comparable use specified in Section 4-5. (g) Reduction in Number of Required Off-Street Loading Spaces. The Planning Commission may, at its discretion, reduce the minimum number of loading spaces required for a specified use by Section 4-5(a) through 4-5(e) above provided that sufficient evidence is presented justifying the need for reduction in the requirements and every effort has been made to provide off-street loading in accordance with the stipulations of this section. 4-6 Nonconforming Parking and Loading Spaces: Any building lawfully in use on February 4, 1974, shall constitute a nonconforming use with regard to parking. Any enlargement of a nonconforming building or expanded use of a nonconforming building must provide the required parking for the additional area or use. 4.7 Zoning Classification Changes: Any building on property for which the zoning  classification is subsequently changed or a Special Exception is subsequently granted shall be provided with sufficient off-street parking pursuant to this section prior to occupancy. 4-8 Bicycle Parking – General Provisions  4-8-1 Statement of Intent: Establish and update parking standards to allow flexible parking    strategies that are economical and encourage access management, mobility and accessibility    for all travel modes and bicycle parking that create pedestrian friendly, environmentally    sustainable and affordable developments. 4-8-2 Applicability: Bicycle parking requirements of this section shall apply to:  a) Any new building greater than 1,200 square feet of gross floor area. b) Any existing building undergoing a change of use and or expansions and alterations, greater than 1,200 square feet of gross floor area. 4-8-3 Exemptions: The following uses shall not be required to provide bicycle parking:  a) residential including one and two family dwellings  4 - 11 b) fraternity and sorority houses c) private clubs, lodges and fraternal buildings not proving overnight accommodations d) automobile repair establishments e) convenience stores (gas/food marts) and similar establishments f) automobile washing and cleaning establishments g) automobile sales (new and used) and manufactured homes sales h) appliance stores i) furniture stores j) night clubs, taverns, lounges, and similar establishment k) mini warehouses l) manufacturing and industrial establishments m) wholesale trade establishments, warehouses  4-8-4 Required Bicycle Parking Spaces:  a) For all required uses, a minimum of two short-term and two long-term bicycle parking spaces shall be provided. b) Bicycle parking must be provided at a rate of one bike space for every ten vehicle parking spaces. c) Whenever a site is exempted from the vehicular parking requirements, the required bicycle parking for the site shall still be calculated based upon the amount of vehicular parking that would have been required for that site. 4-8-5 General Requirement Standards: The following general requirements are specified: a) A bicycle parking space required by this ordinance shall be at least 6 feet long and 2 feet wide with a 5 foot access aisle. b) All required bicycle racks and facilities must be in accordance with the Association of Pedestrian and Bicycle Professionals Bike Parking Guidelines (APBP). c) Whenever vehicle parking spaces are provided in a structure, all required bicycle spaces shall be located inside that structure or shall be located in other areas protected from the weather. 4-8-6 Types of Bicycle Parking: a) Short-Term Bicycle Parking. A type of parking is generally intended to accommodate visitors, customers, messengers, and other persons expected to park for a few minutes to depart within approximately two (2) hours. b) Long-Term Bicycle Parking. A type of parking is generally intended to accommodate employees, students, residents, commuters, and other persons who expect to leave their bicycle parked for more than 2 hours. 4-8-7 Bicycle Parking Requirements: a) Short-Term Bicycle Parking. Choose properly designed bicycle racks that support a bicycle’s frame and are secure. Provides secure and functional parking that can support the bicycle upright on a horizontal plane. 4 - 12 1. Short-term bicycle parking shall consist of bicycle racks that support the bicycle frame at two points. Racks that support only the wheel of the bicycle are not permissible. i. Well-spaced racks allow for ease and efficiency of bicycle parking. ii. Allow front-in and back-in parking. iii. Racks shall allow for the bicycle frame and at least one wheel to be locked to the racks. iv. The bicycle rack shall allow for the use of a cable as well as a U-shaped lock. v. If bicycles can be locked to each side of the rack, each side shall be counted toward a required space. vi. Racks shall be securely anchored to an approved paved surface. vii. At least half of parking should be covered for short-term parking if more than ten (10) bicycles can be parked there. b) Long-Term Bicycle Parking. Long-term bicycle parking requires a high degree of security and weather protection, with well-designed racks in covered areas, lockers, storage rooms, or fenced areas (enclosed on all sides) with restricted access. 1. Acceptable examples of long-term bicycle parking include bicycle lockers or cages that are well maintained and have good placement locations. Long-term bicycle parking shall be secured from the general public. Acceptable examples of some enhanced security measures may include variable levels of entry control to facilities, whereas access to bicycle facilities is restricted and or monitored parking. 4-8-8 Siting Requirements: Required bicycle parking shall be provided on the same lot as the use    for which it is intended to serve. a) Short-Term Bicycle Parking. For new buildings, short-term bicycle parking shall be located to maximize visibility from the main entrance. For existing buildings where exterior space may be inadequate, short-term bicycle parking may be on the level of the parking garage closest to the ground floor with a direct access to a public street. 1. Location shall be within a convenient distance of, and clearly visible from the main entrance to the building as determined by the city, but it shall not be farther than the closest automobile parking space. 2. For buildings with more than one main pedestrian entrance, short term bicycle parking shall be split evenly among all main pedestrian entrances. 3. Signage is required at each building entrance for bicycle parking locating within buildings or parking garages. a) Long-Term Bicycle Parking. Long-term bicycle parking shall be provided in a well- lit, secure location within a convenient distance of a main entrance. A secure location is defined as one in which the bicycle parking is: 1. A bicycle locker, 2. A lockable bicycle enclosure, 3. Provided within a lockable room, or 4. All required long-term bicycle parking spaces shall be sheltered from precipitation. 4-8-9 Lighting Requirements: Adequate lighting shall be provided to ensure safe access to    bicycle parking facilities. 4 - 13 a) Provide a well-lit path from the building entrance to both short-term and long- term bicycle parking. b) Clearly light short-term, long-term parking, and signage. c) Use direct “dark sky” compliant lighting that is consistent and glare-free to provide even light distribution. d) Bicycle parking provided in a structure or under cover shall be illuminated with twice the amount of light as auto parking spaces. 4-8-10 Signage: If required bicycle parking is not visible from the street or main building entrance,    a sign must be posted at the main building entrance indicating the location of the parking. In parking structures, signs shall be installed to indicate the location of the bicycle parking. 4-8-11 Parking Structures: Bicycle parking provided in a structure or under cover shall be:  a) At ground level b) free of charge c) clearly marked d) located in a location that (1) is illuminated with twice the amount of light as auto parking spaces, (2) is separated from auto parking by some form of barrier to minimize the possibility of parked bicycles being hit by an automobile, either, no farther from the vehicular entrance/exit than the nearest vehicular parking space OR no farther from the pedestrian entrance/exit than the nearest vehicular parking space. 4-8-12 Reduction of Vehicle Parking for Bicycle Parking: The number of required off-street    vehicle parking spaces may be reduced where bicycle parking is provided. a) Bicycle parking spaces may be used to replace new and existing vehicle parking spaces at a ratio of two bicycle parking spaces for every one vehicle parking space. b) Up to a maximum of 5% of the total vehicle parking spaces required, and 7% of the vehicle parking spaces required for uses related to public assembly, may be replaced with bicycle parking spaces 4-8-13 Abandoned Bicycle Policy: A bicycle shall be deemed abandoned if it has been parked at     the same location for seven consecutive calendar days. The property owner is responsible     for the removal of abandoned bicycles. Abandoned bicycles may be donated to non-profits    that reuse bicycles or may be disposed of in any lawful manner. 4-8-14 Exceptions: Exceptions to the requirement to provide bicycle parking may be allowed in     some cases and areas. Situations where an exception may be made include the following:  a) Where a showing is made that it is physically not feasible to provide bicycle parking or in areas where significant levels of cycling are unlikely and where alternative means of bicycle parking are likely available. These exceptions may be approved administratively by the Augusta Planning and Development Department’s Director or designee. b) Where a showing is made that joint bicycle parking facilities are provided for two or more establishments. Co-location of bicycle parking facilities at adjacent location. 4 - 14 Amended August 2018 – by adding Lodging/Boarding House Amended August 2018 - CBD nonconforming parking Amended August 2017 – Nightclubs, Taverns, Breweries & Distilleries and similar            establishments Amended June 2017 – adding Amplified Entertainment Amended March 2016 – Amend Residential Requirements and Fast Food and Sit Down            Restaurant Amended July 2015 – 4-1 (c) and (d) – Compact Car parking Amended June 2015 – Added 4-2 (3) Personal Care Home parking Amended January 2015 – Added 4-8 Amended January 2006 Entire Section 4   5 - 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS  SECTION 5  NONCONFORMING USES  5-1 Repairs and Alterations to Nonconforming Buildings or Structures:  (a) Repairs and alterations may be made up to 50% of the structure valuation as assessed by the Richmond County Board of Tax Assessors or its successor, at the time the petition is presented. (b) No structural alterations will be permitted except as provided for in Section 5-7 of this Ordinance. (c) No enlargements will be permitted except as provided for in Section 5-7 of this Ordinance. (d) In the event of destruction by fire or act of God, restoration will be permitted to the extent of the original improvements. 5-2 A building or structure nonconforming as to regulations for use or lot area or for dwelling units shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless said building or structure including such addition and enlargement is made to conform to the use and area in accordance with regulations of the zone in which it is located except as provided for in Section 5-7 of this Ordinance. 5-3 Continuation and Change of Use:  (a) The nonconforming use of a building or structure, lawfully existing on March 25, 1963, may be continued. (b) The nonconforming use of a nonresidential building or structure may be changed only to a use of the same or more restrictive classification, except that any use provided for in Section 26 (Special Exception) may be changed only to the same use or a use that is permitted by the base zoning. The nonconforming use of a residential structure may not be changed to any use not permitted by the base zoning classification. (c) The nonconforming use of land (where no building is involved) lawfully existing on March 25, 1963, may be continued provided that no nonconforming use of land shall be expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining property. 5-4 Expansion Prohibited: A nonconforming use of a portion of a building or structure shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such building or structure nor changed except to a conforming use. 5-5 Nonconforming Due to Reclassification: The foregoing provisions of this section shall also apply to buildings, structures, land or uses which hereinafter become nonconforming due to any reclassification of zones under this Ordinance or any subsequent change in the regulations of this Ordinance. 5 - 2 5-6 Any nonconforming use which has been abandoned for a period of two (2) years or more shall not be used for any purpose other than that permitted in the zone in which such use is situated. 5-7 Structural Alterations and Enlargement: An existing nonconforming use may be permitted to expand in the district in which it is located upon approval by the Executive Director provided that: (a) A site plan showing the existing nonconforming land and building(s) and the proposed expansion has been submitted for approval; (b) The existing nonconforming use is of a type permitted under the B-1 (Neighborhood Business) Zone, Section 21-1(b), of this Ordinance; (c) The enlargement does not exceed twenty (20%) percent of the square footage contained within the existing nonconforming structure, the amount of expansion permitted to be calculated using the square footage on record with the Richmond County Board of Tax Assessors; (d) The expansion shall not extend beyond the property lines of the existing nonconforming use except where additional land is acquired to meet the off-street parking requirements of Section 4 of this Ordinance; (e) The expansion is in compliance with all setback and yard requirements of the zone in which the nonconforming use is located; (f) Off-street parking and loading are provided in accordance with Section 4 of this Ordinance; (g) The expansion does not involve the construction of any separate structures; and (h) No previous expansion has occurred under the provisions of this section. Amended June 2013 – Section 5-3(b)  6 - 1 USE DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 6  DISTRICT DEFINITIONS  6-1 For the purpose of classifying, regulating, and restricting the locations of trades and industries, and the locations of buildings designed for industry, commerce, residence, and other uses; Augusta, Georgia, except Hephzibah, Fort Gordon and Blythe, is hereby divided into the following Use Districts or Zones, to wit;  Agricultural Districts, being "A" Zones. Residential Districts, being "R" Zones. Professional Districts, being "P" Zones. Business Districts, being "B" Zones. Industrial Districts, being "I" Zones. Zone Group Classification: Whenever the terms "A" Zone, "R" Zone, "P" Zone, "B" Zone, or "I" Zone are used, they shall be deemed to refer to all zones containing the same letters and/or numbers in their names, e.g. "R" Zone shall include R-1, R-2, R-3; "R-1" Zone shall include R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D and R-1E zones. 6-2 The Use Zones herein above referred to shall be designated on certain zoning maps and by reference thereto expressly made a part of this Ordinance. No building shall be erected, nor shall buildings or premises be used for any purposes other than a purpose permitted by this Ordinance in a zone in which such buildings or premises are located. 6-3 Zone Boundaries: Unless otherwise indicated the zone boundaries are the centerlines of streets, parkways, waterways, railroad rights-of-way, or such lines extended. 7 - 1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 7  A (AGRICULTURAL) ZONE  7-1 Zone A (Agriculture) Districts: The area of Zone "A" shall be all of Augusta excepting therefrom any and all areas that have been, or may hereafter be, specifically covered by other zones created in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance and shown on Maps on file with the Augusta Planning and Development Department. No land, no body of water, and no structure shall be put into use and no building shall be hereafter erected, constructed, moved, reconstructed, or structurally altered for any purpose in this zone (Zone "A") which is designed, arranged or intended to be used or occupied for any purpose other than the following: (a) Single-family Residential buildings and structures developed under the standards set forth in the R-1 Zone (Section 8), except that the maximum height of fences, walls, or hedges in any required front, side or rear yards of an A (Agriculture) Zone shall be limited to a height of eight (8) feet, except for corner yard areas discussed in Section 3-6 of this Ordinance. (b) Agriculture, dairying and ranching. (c) Buildings incidental to agriculture, dairying and ranching. (d) Building incidental to forestry. (e) Noncommercial boat piers, or slips, or boat houses for docking of private water craft. (f) Manufactured homes on individual lots subject to the criteria listed in Section 27-7 of this Ordinance. (g) Conservation Subdivisions where the overall density of development including portions of the tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed .5 lots per acre. (h) Parking of vehicles related to agricultural and forestry enterprises engaged in on the same or an adjoining property; (i) Parking of no more than two (2) commercial vehicles to include freight carrying vehicles, (truck trailers and tractors) in excess of one ton capacity and three or more axles on a lot which exceeds one acre in area. (j) Flagpole lots, meeting the guidelines of the Land Subdivision Regulations. 7-2. The following may be approved by Special Exception in an A zone if conformance to the standards included herein can be demonstrated and if the benefits of the proposed use are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to neighboring properties:  (a)  Recreational vehicle (RV) parks – Subject to restrictions at Section 28-E          Recreational Vehicle Parks  (b) Animal kennels, boarding of animals, and animal grooming establishments provided that the following conditions are met: (1) The minimum size of any tract of land proposed for use under this section shall be two (2) acres. 7 - 2 (2) No activity permitted under this section shall be conducted within four hundred (400) feet of a permanent dwelling or manufactured home located on another tract of land. \  (3) The applicant for a Special Exception under this section shall submit a site plan showing the boundaries of the property to be used, its dimensions, the location of existing and proposed structures to be used for the purpose of this section, and the distance from these locations to any dwelling or manufactured home located on adjacent tracts of land. 7-3 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 7-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended February – Section 7-1 (j) Amended April 2013 – deleted Section 7-2 (a) Amended January 2008 – Section 7-2 (a) Amended November 2007, Section 7-2(a) Amended May 2005, Section 7-1 (h) (i) Amended Sept. 2004, Section 7-3   8 - 1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 8  R-1 (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE  8-1 Permitted Uses: (a) One family detached dwellings the gross floor area of which is not more than two times the average gross floor area or less than 60% of the average gross floor area of existing homes located on lots in whole or in part within 300 feet of the boundaries of the subject lot. Gross floor area shall include the entire area located under the roof of the principal structure, including finished attics, attached garages, and basements, and it shall be as presented in the online information of the Augusta Richmond County Tax Assessor’s Office. (b) Fence, walls: A fence, latticework screen or wall in a required side or rear yard shall not exceed six (6) feet in height. A fence, latticework screen or wall located in a required front yard shall be limited to four (4) feet in height. Any fence, wall, or landscape feature located at the corner of intersecting streets described in Section 3-6 of this Ordinance shall be subject to additional restrictions discussed in that subsection. (c) Yard Sales provided that no more than two (2), lasting no more than three (3) days per time, are conducted at a single address during a calendar year. (d) Accessory buildings and uses as described elsewhere in this section. (e) Conservation Subdivisions where the overall density of development including portions of the tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed 3 lots per acre. (f) Residential facilities for handicapped persons as defined at 42 U.S.C. 3602   except for such uses that are addressed at 26-1(g), 26-1(p) and 35-10 of this   Ordinance. Prohibited Uses:  Flagpole lots shall not be permitted. 8-2 Special Exceptions: The following may be permitted in an R-1 Zone by Special Exceptions: (a) Single-family attached and detached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance with Section 13 provided that the density of dwellings shall not exceed three (3) units per acre. (b) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the boundary of the less restricted zone. (c) Ponds, whether impoundment or excavations, in excess of the following maximum pond area to lot area ratios may be permitted by Special Exception:  LOT AREA MAXIMUM POND/LOT AREA RATIO Less than 2 acres  2%  2 - 5 acres 20%  Over 5 acres 40%   8 - 2 Ponds smaller than the maximum ratios shall be permitted uses by right. Retention or detention ponds approved as part of a Site Plan or Subdivision Development Plan shall also be permitted uses by right. A Grading Plan or a Soil Erosion Plan, depending on the size of the disturbed area shall be submitted and approved before construction of a pond requiring Special Exception commences. Such plan shall include the following statement:  "The pond as shown hereon is the private property of the owner, who has full and perpetual responsibility for the maintenance and repair. The owner releases Augusta, Georgia, from any and all claims, damages, or demands arising on account of or in connection with the design, construction, and maintenance of the pond as shown hereon. Augusta, Georgia, assumes no liability or duty related thereto, and in no manner approves or assumes liability for the design of the pond as shown hereon." (d) Construction trailers may be allowed in a subdivision with an approved Development Plan subject to the following criteria:  (1) A Manufactured Home Permit must be acquired from the Augusta Planning and Development Department for the construction trailer; (2) The construction trailer must be located away from the front entrance of the subdivision, preferably in the rear of the subdivision, and in the area of the last homes to be developed in the subdivision. The construction trailer must be located as far as possible from any existing stick-built residential homes in adjoining subdivisions, but in no case shall the construction trailer be located within 150 feet of a site-built residential home located in an adjoining subdivision; (3) No sale of lots or homes is to take place from this construction trailer - the construction trailer is to be used for construction related business only; (4) The construction trailer is to be tied down, underpinned, have wooden steps with hand-rails and have a gravel parking area. Any outside items need to be maintained in a neat and orderly manner; (5) The Owner/Developer must provide the Augusta Planning and Development Department with the following certification: "The Owner/Developer/Contractor will not hold Augusta, GA liable for any claims, damages or demands arising on account of or in connection with the placement of the construction trailer within the subdivision. "; (6) The construction trailer will be moved off of the subject property within 48 hours of the commencement of the last home in the subdivision - -or The construction trailer must me moved off of the subject property within 48 hours of the expiration of Development Plan approval for the subdivision; and (7) Inspection will be made by the Augusta Planning and Development Department every twelve (12) months. (e) Sales trailers may be allowed in a subdivision with an approved Development Plan subject to the following criteria:   8 - 3 (1) A Manufactured Home Permit must be acquired from the Augusta Planning and Development Department for the sales trailer; (2) Sales trailers must be located in excess of 500 feet from any public street that is not part of the subdivision, and 150 or more feet from a site-built residential home located in an adjoining subdivision; (3) The sales trailer is to be tied down, underpinned, have wooden steps with hand-rails and have a gravel parking area. Any outside items need to be maintained in a neat and orderly manner; (4) Areas not left natural or used for parking must be landscaped or sodded; (5) The Owner-Developer must provide the Augusta Planning and Development Department with the following certification: "The Owner/Developer/ Contractor will not hold Augusta, GA liable for any claims, damages or demands arising on account of or in connection with the placement of the sales trailer within the subdivision; (6) Permits for the sales trailer would be issued for one (1) year and could only be renewed at the discretion of the Augusta Planning and Development Department Staff; (7) The sales trailer will be moved off of the subject property within 48 hours of the commencement of the last home in the subdivision - or the sales trailer must be moved off of the subject property within 48 hours of the expiration of Development Plan approval for the subdivision; and (8) Inspection will be made by the Augusta Planning and Development Department every twelve (12) months in conjunction with the renewal of the Mobile Home Permit. (f) Sales offices may be allowed in new subdivisions with approved Final Plats subject to the following criteria:  (1) Sales offices must be located on lots designated on the approved Final Plats of new subdivisions, must be for sales of lots within that subdivision only, and must adhere to all minimum setback requirements; (2) Parking areas for sales offices cannot exceed the normal parking pad for the lot/home and must be comparable in size and construction to other parking pads in the neighborhood. The parking pad must be constructed prior to issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy; (3) For subdivisions requiring sidewalks, the sidewalk on this lot must be constructed prior to issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy; (4) Areas not left natural or used for parking must be landscaped or sodded prior to the Certificate of Occupancy; (5) One real estate or developer’s sign less than six square feet in area may be allowed on the property. No banners as defined by Section 28-B-2 of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance will be allowed on the property; (6) Adjoining lots (whether grassed or graveled) may not be used for parking;  (7) The sales aspect of the sales office will cease and desist within 48 hours of the commencement of the last home in the subdivision. (g ) One family detached dwelling the average gross floor area of which is more than two times the average gross floor area or less than 60% of the gross floor area of existing homes located on lots in whole or in part within 300 feet of the  8 - 4 boundaries of the subject lot. Gross floor area shall include the entire area located under the roof of the principal structure, including finished attics, attached garages, and basements, and it shall be as presented in the online information of the Augusta, Georgia Tax Assessor’s Office. 8-3 Home Occupations:  a) Intent. The conduct of businesses in residential units may be permitted under the provisions of this section. It is the intent of this section to: 1) ensure the compatibility of home occupations with other uses permitted in residential districts; 2) maintain and preserve the character of residential neighborhoods; and 3) permit certain limited home occupations which are useful to both the general community as well as the resident-proprietor. b) Required Conditions. A home occupation is an activity carried out for gain by a resident conducted as an accessory use in the resident's dwelling unit subject to the following conditions: 1) Home occupations shall be limited to personal services such as are furnished by a music teacher, artist, beautician, seamstress, and in-house offices; 2) Home occupations shall not include retail businesses, manufacturing businesses nor repair businesses; 3) Home occupations shall be situated in the same dwelling unit as the home of the occupant, and the individual responsible for the home occupation shall live in the dwelling unit; 4) The home occupation shall not occupy nor affect more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the heated floor area of the dwelling unit. It shall be carried on wholly within the principal building constituting the dwelling unit. No home occupation nor any storage of goods, materials, or products conducted with a home occupation shall be allowed in an accessory building, garage, carport, or porch, attached or detached. 5) There shall be no exterior indication of the home occupation; no exterior signs nor other on-site advertising visible from the exterior; no audible  noise, detectable vibration, inordinate illumination, no odor; no entrance or exit way specifically provided for the conduct of business; and vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall not be generated in volumes greater than would normally be expected by a single family residence. 6) For home occupations established after November 15, 1983 there shall be no assistants employed. Home occupations established prior to that date may have two assistants. 7) Where special equipment is used the Building Code of Augusta, Georgia shall govern the size of electrical wiring, plumbing, etc., which must be installed before such home occupation may begin. 8) When a home occupation is to be conducted on property not owned by the applicant or operator, written permission from the owner is required. 8 - 5 c) Special Use Permits. All home occupations shall have Special Use Permits. Special Use Permits shall be granted upon payment of a fee and a finding that a proposed home occupation would conform to the conditions at 8-3(b) and that no detrimental impact upon the surrounding residential area would be expected. 1) Special Use Permits may be granted administratively by the Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department for certain home occupations such as computer, telephone, or mail based businesses or offices, or other similar businesses where, in the opinion of the Executive Director, there is no potential for customers to visit the residence, or for excessive mail, truck or other material deliveries to the residence. 2) For all other home occupations, Special Use Permits shall be granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals. 3) Applications for all Special Use Permits for home occupations shall be made with the Augusta Planning and Development Department. 4) Special Use Permits shall be granted to a designated person who resides at a residential address, and they shall not be transferable from person to person, address to address, or use to use. 5) Special Use Permits, once granted, may be revoked by the Augusta Commission upon advisement by the Augusta Planning and Development Department for cause after a hearing before the former commission. 6) An individual granted a Special Use Permit for a home occupation has a period of one year from the date of approval to begin operation of the home occupation. Prior to beginning operation of the home occupation a business license must be obtained. Anyone that fails to begin operation of the home occupation within one year time period forfeits the home occupation right previously granted. 7) A Special Use Permit may be denied if a home occupation could be hazardous or injurious to the welfare of the community or if compliance with the requirements of this section has not been met. d) Family day care homes - may be granted Special Use Permit administratively by staff as provided for at 8-3(c)(1) if they conform to the criteria set at 8-3(b), 26- 1(f), and the following special criteria. Those applicants for family day care homes that conform to 8-3(b) and 26-1(f) but do not conform to the special criteria may be approved by Special Exception as provided for in Section 26. Special criteria for staff approval of Family Day Care Homes are:  i. Applicant must live in the home ii. Home has public sewerage or applicant has a letter of approval from the Richmond County Board of Health iii. Home is not in the floodplain iv. Applicant must provide proof of application for registration from the Georgia Department of Human Resources Day Care Licensing Unit    8 - 6 v. The lot on which the family day care home would be located is 10,000 square feet in area or greater vi. Hours of operation would not be greater than 6:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M. vii. No persons listed with Richmond County Sex Offenders Registry reside within 1,000 feet of the property. 8-4 Accessory Building: Accessory buildings not more than one (1) story and no more than 18 feet in height as measured in Section 2: “Building Height.” The accessory structure shall not be taller than the primary structure when viewed from the street. Accessory structures may be constructed in the R-1 Zone, subject to the following restrictions:  (a) All accessory buildings shall have the side yard setback required for principal structures as specified elsewhere in this Ordinance. (b) All accessory buildings shall have a rear yard setback of not less than ten (10) feet, including eaves and other overhanging portions of the structure. (c) Except for carports and detached garages, accessory buildings shall not permitted in any front yard. Carports and freestanding garages shall conform to the front setback requirements for principal structures. (d) Where the rear yard abuts upon a street, no accessory building shall be closer to the rear lot line than the required setback for the zone. (e) That the maximum total gross floor area of all accessory buildings on a lot shall be based on the area of the lot upon which they are located. The maximum gross floor area for accessory buildings shall be as follows:  Lot Area Maximum Accessory Building Area  Under 10,000 square feet 5% of lot area  10,000 square feet or larger greater of 500 square feet or 3% of   lot area, but never more than 1,200   square feet (f) Accessory buildings shall not be designed and used for residential purposes. They shall not contain sleeping, bathing or cooking facilities. If an accessory building contains cooking facilities of any description, then a deed restriction must be recorded stating that the accessory building is not a residential structure and can never be occupied s such before a permit may be issued. Accessory buildings may not be used to conduct home occupations or serve as home offices. In no case may an accessory building have a separate electrical service. 8-5 DELETED. 8-5.1 TV Satellite Dish Antenna As An Accessory Use: TV Satellite dish antennas shall be permitted as an accessory use in the R-1 Zone. All TV satellite dish antennas shall adhere to the setback requirements for accessory structures, except that no regulated satellite dish antenna may be located in any front yard. TV Satellite dishes less than one (1) meter in diameter shall not be regulated. 8 - 7 8-6 Height: No building or structure hereafter shall be erected, constructed or altered in an R-1 Zone to exceed a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) stories or forty-five (45) feet. 8-7 Area: Every lot in an R-1 Zone shall have a minimum width of one hundred (100) feet and minimum area of 15,000 square feet. Irregularly-shaped lots shall measure a minimum of one hundred feet in width along the building setback line. 8-8 Setbacks: (a) Front Setback: There shall be a front yard setback in an R-1 Zone of not less than thirty (30) feet from any structure to the front lot line on minor or local streets and a front setback of forty (40) feet from any structure to the front lot line on all other streets and highways. For lots in Residential Subdivisions, approved after adoption of this Section, where a sixty (60) foot or greater right-of-way is utilized and such lots are approved by the Augusta Planning and Development Department, there shall be a front setback or not less than twenty-five (25) feet from any structure to the front lot line on minor or local streets. Where a lot is situated in a block face with non-uniform front setbacks, the minimum front setback requirement on such lot shall be the average of the front yards of the existing structures on the block face. In the event the average front setbacks of the block face exceed fifty (50) feet, there shall be no setback requirement greater than a distance of fifty (50) feet from the front of the building to the front lot line. If there are less than two (2) existing structures located within 500 feet on either side of the lot in question, then the provisions regarding non-uniform lots shall not apply. (b) Side Setback: The side yard setback for principal structures in an R-1 Zone are as follows:  (1) Lots having a width of fifty-five (55) feet or less shall have two (2) side yards each having a width of not less than five (5) feet. (2) Lots having a width of fifty-six (56) to seventy (70) feet shall have two (2) side yards each having a width of not less than seven (7) feet. (3) Lots having a width of over seventy (70) feet shall have two (2) side yards each having a width of not less than ten (10) feet. (c) Rear Setback: There shall be a rear yard setback for lots in an R-1 Zone of not less than twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot but such yard need not exceed fifty (50) feet. 8-9 Lot Coverage: Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of a lot in an R-1 Zone may be covered by buildings or structures, provided that such lot coverage need not be reduced to eight hundred (800) square feet. 8 - 8   8-10 Special Exceptions  Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 8-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended – February 2018 – Section 8-1 –prohibited uses Amended – January 2017 – Section 8-4 Amended June 2008 – Section 8-3-(d) Amended August 2008 - Section 8-1 (a) Amended June 2008 – Section 8-1 (f) Amended January 2008 – Section 8 – 4 (e) (f) Amended Sept. 2004, Section 8-10   9 - 1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 9  R-1A (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE  9-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in an R-1 Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the R-1 Zone; and (b) All the provisions and regulations which apply to the R-1 (One-family Zone) shall apply to the R-1A Zone, except that every lot in an R-1A Zone shall have a minimum width of eighty (80) feet and a minimum area of ten thousand (10,000) square feet. (c) Conservation Subdivisions where the overall density of development including portions of the tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed 4 lots per acre. 9-2 Special Exception: The following may be permitted in an R-1A Zone by Special Exception: (a) Single-family attached and detached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance with Section 13, provided that the density of dwellings shall not exceed four (4) units per acre. (b) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the boundary of the less restricted zone. 9-3 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 9-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended Sept. 2004, Section 9-3 Amended Jan. 2005 – Section 9-2(a)   10 - 1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 10  R-1B (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE  10-1 Permitted Uses (a) Any use permitted in the R-1A Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the R-1A Zone; (b) All the provisions and regulations which apply to the R-1A Zone shall apply to the R-1B Zone, except that every lot in the R-1B Zone shall have a minimum width of seventy-five (75) feet and a minimum area of 7,500 square feet; and (c) Conservation subdivisions where the overall density of development, including portions of a tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed 5 lots per acre. 10-2 Special Exception: The following may be permitted in an R-1B Zone by Special Exception: (a) Single-family attached and detached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance with Section 13, provided that the density of dwellings shall not exceed five and one-half (5-1/2) units per acre. (b) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the boundary of the less restricted zone. 10-3 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 10-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended Sept. 2004, Section 10-3 Amended Jan. 2005 – Section 10-2(a)   11 - 1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 11  R-1C (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE  11-1 Permitted Uses (a) Any use permitted in the R-1B Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the R-1B Zone; (b) All the provisions and regulations which apply to the R-1B Zone shall apply to the R-1C Zone, except that every lot in the R-1C Zone shall have a minimum width of sixty (60) feet and a minimum area of 6,000 square feet; and (c) Conservation subdivisions where the overall density of development, including portions of a tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed 7 lots per acre. 11-2 Special Exception: The following may be permitted in an R-1C Zone by Special Exception: (a) Single-family attached and detached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance with Section 13, provided that the density of dwellings shall not exceed seven (7) units per acre. (b) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the boundary of the less restricted zone. 11-3 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 11-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended Sept. 2004, Section 11-3 Amended Jan. 2005, Section 11-2 (a)   12 - 2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 12  R-1D (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE  12-1 Permitted Uses: The following uses may be permitted in an R-1D district upon determination by the Augusta Planning and Development Department that a request conforms to the requirements of this Section, that it is compatible with surrounding development, and that it promotes the planning policies and objectives for the specific and general areas in which it is located:  (a) Any use permitted in Sections 8 through 11 of this Ordinance. (b) Single-family attached dwellings in groups of two joined at a common lot line. (c) Common open space or recreational areas and uses intended for the primary use and enjoyment of the residents of the proposed development. (d) Single-family detached dwellings. 12-2 Lot Size: Every lot in an R-1D Zone shall have a minimum width of forty feet and a minimum area of four thousand (4,000) square feet. 12-3 Setbacks:  (a) Front Setback: On arterial, collector, industrial or major streets and highways, the minimum setback in the R-1D Zone shall be the same as Section 8-8 (a). On local or minor streets, the minimum setback in the R-1D zone shall be 15 feet to the front lot line. (b) Side Setback: All detached dwellings shall have a side setback not less than five feet. Where a side yard abuts a zone described in Sections 8 through 11 of this Ordinance, no structure may be constructed within 25 feet of the boundary of that zone. If a six foot brick or stucco wall is constructed beginning at the front setback line and extending along the entire side property line adjoining the zone described in Sections 8 through 11 of this Ordinance, then the required setback shall be fifteen (15) feet. Where a side yard abuts a public street the provisions for front setbacks shall apply. (c) Rear Yard: The rear setback shall be the greater of twenty-five (25) feet or twenty (20) percent of the depth of the lot, but such yard need not exceed fifty (50) feet. 12-4 Building Height: No building or structure shall be constructed in an R-1D Zone to exceed a height of two and a half (2-1/2) stories or forty-five (45) feet. 12-5 Parking: A minimum of two (2) parking spaces for each dwelling unit shall be provided in the R-1D Zone. 12-6 Lot Coverage: There shall be no maximum lot coverage in the R-1D Zone. 12-7 Application for Approval: All applications for development or a change of zoning to an R-1D Zone shall be accompanied by the following: (a) A plat of the land to be included in the total development showing all rights-of- way and easements affecting the property to be rezoned to an R-1D classification. 12 - 3 (b) A plat of the lots and the boundaries thereof along with the square footage contained in each lot and the location and rights-of-way of proposed streets in the total development. (c) The location of buildings and the number of stories contained in each. (d) The preliminary location of water supply, sanitary, and storm sewer systems. (e) The location of all curb cuts, driving lanes and parking areas. (f) The location and type of all common areas (pedestrian walkways, open spaces, recreational uses), including a statement of the method to be used to insure continued maintenance of such areas. (g) The location and height of all walls, fences and screen plantings. (h) A typical tentative plan showing front elevations of the proposed dwellings including a tentative statement indicating the type of construction to be used. (i) A tabulation of the total area, number of dwelling units, and overall density per acre. 12-8 Revision of Plans After Final Approval: Any request to change an approved development plan which affects the intent and character of the development, the density or land use pattern, the location or dimension of streets, or similar changes, shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 35 of this Ordinance. A request for revision of the development plan shall be supported by a written statement of why the revisions are necessary or desirable. 12-9 Compliance with Subdivision Regulations: The development shall comply with the pertinent requirements of the Subdivision Regulations for Augusta, Georgia. 12-10. Buffer Yard: A 10 foot wide buffer yard which meets the requirements of the Augusta Tree Ordinance as it pertains to side buffer yards is required along an entire side or rear boundary of the proposed development if:  (a) The proposed average lot size for the proposed development is less than 80% of the average of the size of existing residential lots within 300 feet of a side or rear boundary of the proposed development; or (b) The proposed average lot size for the development is less than 80% of the minimum lot size permitted by the zoning classification of property within 300 feet of a side or rear boundary of the proposed development if such property is undeveloped but zoned single family residential or agricultural. Amended January 2008 – Section 12-10 Amended September 2007 – Section 12-3 (a)   13 - 1  RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 13  R-1E (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE  Statement of Intent: The intent of this section is to allow greater flexibility in the integration of various types of owner-occupied housing. 13-1 Permitted Uses: The following uses may be permitted in an R-1E district upon determination by the Augusta Planning and Development Department that a request conforms to the requirements of this Section, that it is compatible with surrounding development, and that it promotes the planning policies and objectives for the specific and general areas in which it is located: (a) Any use permitted in Sections 8 through 12 of this Ordinance. (b) Single-family attached dwellings (condominiums or subdivisions). (c) Multi-family condominium structures. 13-2 Lot Size: There shall be no minimum lot size or lot width in the R-1E Zone. 13-3 Setbacks: (a) Front Setback: On arterial, collector, industrial or major streets and highways, the minimum setback in the R-1E Zone shall be the same as Section 8-8 (a). On local or minor streets, the minimum setback in the R-1E zone shall be 15 feet to the front lot line. (b) Side Setback: The side setback provisions of Section 12 of this Ordinance shall apply to the R-1E Zone. (c) Rear Setback: The rear setback provisions of Section 12 of this Ordinance shall apply to the R-1E Zone. 13-4 Coverage: There shall be no maximum lot coverage in the R-1E Zone. 13-5 Building Height: No building or structure shall be erected or constructed in an R-1E Zone to exceed a height of two and one-half (2-1/2 ) stories or forty-five (45) feet. 13-6 Building Length: There shall be no continuous residential structures such as townhouses, attached dwellings, or multifamily dwellings containing more than eight (8) dwelling units. 13-7 DELETED. 13-8 Density Requirements: The maximum number of dwelling units per acre permitted in the R-1E Zone shall be ten (10). The number of units allowable shall be computed by multiplying the total acreage of the tract by ten (10). 13-9 Open Space Requirement: Not less than twenty-five (25) percent of the development shall be maintained as permanent open space. Such open space may include common areas, buffers, landscaped yards, water areas and any natural areas. Such open space shall  13 - 2  be computed beginning five (5) feet outside the building walls. Parking and other paved surfaces, except patios and courtyards, shall not count toward this open space requirement. Any required open space may be left under individual ownership if it falls on an individual lot, but a property owners' association shall maintain any common area not dedicated to the Augusta-Richmond County Commission. Restrictive covenants, declarations and restrictions running with the land shall provide for access across and permanent maintenance and protection of the common space within these requirements. Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area. 13-10 Off-Street Parking Regulations: (a) A minimum of two (2) parking spaces for each dwelling unit shall be provided in the R-1E Zone. (b) Where off-street parking is arranged so as to require backing from more than four contiguous spaces directly onto a public street, the minimum parking space dimensions shall be ten (10) feet in width and twenty-five (25) feet in length. (c) No off-street parking shall be arranged so as to require backing from a space directly into a collector or an arterial street. 13-11 Application for Approval: All applications for development or a change of zoning to an R-1E Zone shall be accompanied by the following: (a) A plat of the land to be included in the total development showing all rights-of- way and easements affecting the property to be rezoned to an R-1E classification. (b) A plat of the lots and the boundaries thereof along with the square footage contained in each lot and the location and rights-of-way of proposed streets. (c) The location of buildings and the number of stories contained in each. (d) The preliminary location of water supply, sanitary and storm sewer systems. (e) The location of all curb cuts, driving lanes and parking areas. (f) The location and type of all common areas (pedestrian walkways, open spaces, recreational uses) including a statement of the method to be used to insure continued maintenance of such areas. (g) The location and height of all walls, fences and screen plantings. (h) A typical tentative plan showing elevations of the proposed dwellings, including a tentative statement indicating the type of construction to be used. (i) A tabulation of the total area, number of dwelling units, and overall density per acre. 13-12 Revision of Plans After Final Approval: Any request to change an approved development plan which affects the intent and character of the development, the density or land use pattern, the location or dimension of streets, or similar changes, shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 35 of this Ordinance. A request for revision of the development plan shall be supported by a written statement of why the revisions are necessary or desirable. 13-13 Compliance with Subdivision Regulations: The development shall comply with the pertinent requirements of the Subdivision Regulations for Augusta. 13-14. Buffer Yard: A 10 foot wide buffer yard which meets the requirements of the Augusta  13 - 3  Tree Ordinance as it pertains to side buffer yards is required along an entire side or rear boundary of the proposed development if: (a) The proposed average lot size for the proposed development is less than 80% of the average of the size of existing residential lots within 300 feet of a side or rear boundary of the proposed development; or (b) The proposed average lot size for the development is less than 80% of the minimum lot size permitted by the zoning classification of property within 300 feet of a side or rear boundary of the proposed development if such property is undeveloped but zoned single family residential or agricultural. 13-15. Special Exception: The following may be permitted in an R-1E Zone by Special Exception:  The R-1E Village Green Development is intended for urban infill or urban redevelopment in an area defined as the “Old City Limits” of Augusta GA (and as found on the GIS Maps for Augusta, Georgia). Single-family attached and detached dwellings and townhouses developed in accordance with this subsection, provided that the density of dwellings shall not exceed five and one- half (5 ½) units per acre, and subject to the following provisions. Size of Tract: The maximum size of any tract to be developed pursuant to this Ordinance shall be two (2) acres and the overall tract shall have permanent paved access to a paved public road or a road to be paved and dedicated to the public. Lot Size: There shall be no minimum lot size or lot width. Lot Coverage: There shall be no maximum lot coverage. Density Limit: The maximum density of development shall be five and one-half (5 ½) units per acre. Building Height: The maximum height of a building shall not exceed two and one-half (2 ½) stories or forty-five (45) feet from the finished grade. Building Length: There shall be no continuous residential structures such as townhouses, attached dwellings, or multifamily dwellings containing more than two (2) dwelling units. Building Setbacks:  a) Front Setback: There shall be a front yard setback of no more than twenty (20) feet from any structure to an adjoining street or other public right-of-way. Front setbacks may be utilized along the Village Green as long as there is a designated twenty (20) foot rear setback elsewhere on the lot. Zero lot-line development is permitted within front setbacks where utilities are not present prohibiting zero lot- line development. 13 - 4   b) Side Setbacks: There shall be a side yard setback of not less than five (5) feet between structures. Zero lot-line development is permitted provided that a reciprocal access easement is recorded for both of the single-family lots and townhouses or other attached dwellings, and provided that all dwellings have pedestrian access to the rear yard through means other than the principal structure. c) There shall be a rear yard setback of not less than twenty (20) feet from any principal structure to an adjoining property. Parking Setbacks:  a) There shall be a setback of not less than twenty (20) feet from any guest parking  area to an adjoining public right-of-way. b) There shall be a setback of not less than twenty (20) feet from any guest parking area to an adjoining property zoned or used for residential use. Development and Performance Standards:  a) Buildings:  a. All buildings shall be oriented toward street frontage or the Village Green unless an exception is granted to improve the site design. b. The architectural features, materials, and the articulation of a facade of a building shall be continued on all sides visible from a public street or courtyard. c. The front facade shall not be oriented to face directly toward a parking lot. d. Porches, pent roofs, roof overhangs, hooded front doors or other similar architectural elements shall define the front entrance to all residences. e. An accessory structure may be placed on a single-family detached residential lot not to exceed 120 square feet or 18 feet total in height. All accessory structures shall have no less than 5-foot side and rear setbacks, including eaves and other overhanging portion of the structure, and may not be located adjacent to the Village Green or within 20 feet of any existing or proposed public street. Accessory structures within view of any existing or proposed public street must be screened from view of the existing or proposed public street by trees or vegetative screening that will reach a minimum of 8 foot in height within three years of being planted. 13 - 5  f. A variety of architectural features and building materials is encouraged to give each building or group of buildings a distinct character. b) Parking: Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 4 of this Ordinance. c) Streets: Newly designed internal streets intended to be dedicated to Augusta, Georgia, as well as any newly designed private streets, shall conform to the requirements of the Street and Road Design Technical Manual with two way streets being a minimum of 50’ right-of-way and 32’ back of curb to back of curb or internal one-way streets, designed to be no longer than 500 feet in length and serve no more than 8 lots, must have a 32’ right-of-way and 20’ of paving (24’ back of curb to back of curb). Utility corridors on internal one-way streets, may be approved, on a case-by-case basis, by Augusta Engineering and Augusta Utilities. As part of the rezoning request, internal one-way streets, being a length of no longer than 500 feet and serving no more than 8 lots, may be approved, on a case- by-case basis, by Augusta Planning and Development Department, Augusta Engineering Division, Augusta Utilities, and the Augusta Fire Department. All sub-grade, base and paving for internal one-way streets, whether public or private, must conform to current City of Augusta standards and specifications, at the time of construction. No parking signs will be required on internal one-way streets. Approval of internal one-way streets having a 32’ right-of-way and 20’ of paving, (24’ back of curb to back of curb), by City staff, does not guarantee that the City of Augusta will take these streets into their maintenance system. For private one-way streets, a draft of the Home Owners Association documents shall be submitted indicating responsibility for maintenance of private one-way streets, common areas, parking areas or any other commonly held areas of the Village Green development not deeded to the City of Augusta. d) Signage: Subdivision signage shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 28-B-7-A of this ordinance. e) Landscaping and Buffers: Internal landscaping must be provided for on the development plan for the Village Green Development. All buffers required as a condition of this zoning must be a minimum of 10 feet in width and shall include a large tree 40-foot on center with vegetative plantings in between trees that will provide a year-round visual screen that is at least 8 feet in height. If the buffer is required to have a privacy fence, then the fence shall consist of a 6-foot solid board of “shadowbox style” wood fence, or a masonry wall, that has two finished sides, unless a fence or wall already exists on the adjoining property that meets the requirement set forth in this Ordinance. 13 - 6  f) Green Infrastructure / Low Impact Development Requirements: All land developed under this Ordinance should incorporate Green Infrastructure / Low Impact Development into the design to improve water quality and water quantity. Sites discharging into receiving waterbodies listed on the current State 303d list shall implement stormwater runoff reduction practices to reduce discharge volumes to those waterbodies. Runoff reduction practices shall be sized and designed to retain the first 1.0 inch of rainfall on the site to the maximum extent practical. If the reduction cannot be obtained due to site constraints, then the remaining runoff from the 1.2 inch rainfall event must be treated by Best Management Practices (BMPs) to remove a minimum of 80% of the calculated post-development total suspended solids (TSS) loading leaving the site. Village Green Requirement:  a) A minimum of one-half acre, or twenty percent (20%) of the tract, shall be dedicated to common open / recreation space, hereafter referred to as the Village Green. Front, side and rear yards, required buffers and landscaped areas and parking and other paved surfaces, shall not count as part of the Village Green. b) The Village Green shall be centrally located within the development and accessible by all residents. c) The Village Green may include landscaping, active and passive recreation features, water features and any natural areas. d) All building lots must be adjacent to, have clear views of, or be connected to the Village Green by sidewalks. All lots shall be provided with five-foot wide sidewalks, per Augusta, Georgia standards and specifications, which must interconnect all lots and connect to the five-foot wide sidewalk accessing and surrounding the Village Green. The sidewalk accessing the Village Green must be per Augusta GA standards and specifications. e) A property owners' association shall maintain the Village Green. Restrictive covenants, declarations and restrictions running with the land shall provide for access across and permanent maintenance and protection of the Village Green. Circulation System:  a) Motor Vehicle Circulation. Motor vehicle circulation shall be designed to minimize conflicts with pedestrians and bicycles. Traffic calming features such as “queuing streets,” curb extensions, traffic circles, and medians may be used to encourage slow traffic speeds. b) Pedestrian Circulation. Convenient pedestrian circulation systems that minimize pedestrian-motor vehicle conflicts shall be provided continuously throughout the development. Where feasible, any existing pedestrian routes through the site shall  13 - 7  be preserved and enhanced. The following provisions also apply:  1. All lots shall be provided with five-foot wide sidewalks, per Augusta, Georgia standards and specifications, which must interconnect with all other sidewalks within the development, including the sidewalk accessing and surrounding the Village Green. All sidewalks must be per Augusta GA standards and specifications. 2. Clear and well-lighted sidewalks, five-feet in width, and per Augusta, Georgia standards and specifications, shall connect all dwelling entrances to the adjacent public sidewalk. 3. Sidewalks and all mandated handicap access shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). 4. Intersections of sidewalks with streets shall be designed with clearly defined edges, such as curb extensions. Crosswalks shall be well lit and clearly marked with contrasting paving materials at the edges or with striping. 5. Sidewalks and handicap access, per Augusta GA standards and specifications, must be provided for on any existing arterial or collector street if the subdivision is adjacent to an existing street that is classified as an arterial or collector road. Off-Street Parking Regulations:  (a) A minimum of 2.25 – 2.5 off-street parking spaces for each dwelling unit shall be provided. Guest parking must be delineated on the plan at the time of application for rezoning. (b) No off-street parking shall be arranged so as to require backing from a space directly on to a public street, except for individual residential lot driveways. (c) Compliance is required with all other applicable provisions of Section 4 of this ordinance. Application for Approval: All applications for a Special Exception in the R-1E zone shall be accompanied by the following:  a) A plat of the land to be included in the total development showing all rights-of- way and easements affecting the property. b) A plat of the lots and the boundaries thereof along with the square footage contained in each lot and the location and rights-of-way of proposed streets and sidewalks. c) The location of buildings and the number of stories contained in each. 13 - 8   d) The preliminary location of water supply, sanitary and storm sewer systems. e) The location of all curb cuts, driving lanes and parking areas. f) The location, dimensions, size and features of the Village Green. g) The location and height of all walls, fences and screen plantings. h) A pattern book, illustrative guide or similar document that includes elevation drawings of the proposed dwellings and all exterior materials and finishes. i) A tabulation of the total area, number of dwelling units, and overall density per acre. Revision of Plans After Final Approval: The Director of Planning and Development may approve minor revisions to the approved development plan which do not affect the intent and character of the development, the density or land use pattern, or similar changes. Any request to change an approved development plan which affects the intent and character of the development, the density or land use pattern, or similar changes, shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 35 of this Ordinance. A request for revision of the development plan shall be supported by a written statement of why the revision(s) are necessary or desirable. Compliance with Subdivision Regulations: The development shall comply with the pertinent requirements of the Subdivision Regulations for Augusta. Internal Streets / Roadways: Internal streets and roadways must conform to the Street and Road Design Technical Manual or be classified as an internal one way street pursuant to the Ordinance. Easements for utility corridors may be provided along the front of all lots adjacent to streets and roadways, as applicable or as needed; however, zero (0) lot lines may not be feasible on these lots. Easements: Additional easements for drainage of the area to be subdivided, may be required on side and rear lot lines as part of the overall design and shall be of suitable size necessary to permit proper construction and maintenance of the drainage facilities required to properly drain the property. Drainage easements shall be a minimum width of ten (10) feet, provided, however, that easements up to fifty (50) feet may be required, if in the opinion of the Engineering Department, such easements are necessary in the public interest. Easements shall center along or be adjacent to a common property line where practicable. No structures of any kind may be located within drainage or utility easements or over any drainage or utility lines or mains. 13 - 9   Special Exceptions  Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 13 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended March 2017 – Add 13-15 Amended January 2008 – Section 13-14 Amended January 2008 – Section 13-14   14 - 1  RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 14  R-MH (MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENTIAL) ZONE  14-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in the R-1 (One-family) Zone, subject to the restrictions and regulations of the R-1 Zone. (b) Manufactured Home Parks in accordance with the requirements of Section 27 of this Ordinance. (c) Manufactured Homes on individual lots in accordance with the provisions of Section 27 of this Ordinance. (d)  Flagpole lots, meeting the guidelines of the Land Subdivision Regulations. 14-2 Height: The height provisions of the R-1 (One-family) Zone shall apply. 14-3 Area: Every lot in an R-MH (Manufactured Home Residential) Zone where public sewer is to be used shall be 15,000 square feet. Every lot in an R-MH (Manufactured Home Residential) Zone where an individual sewage disposal system is to be used shall be developed in accordance with the provisions of the Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Ordinance. The minimum lot (space) area for manufactured home parks shall also be developed in accordance with the provisions of the Groundwater Recharge Area. 14-4 Lot Width: The minimum lot width in the R-MH zone is 100 feet. For Manufactured Home Parks the requirements shall be as set forth in Section 27 of this Ordinance. 14-5 Setbacks: Front, side, and rear yard setback requirements shall be the same as for the R-1 (One-family) Zone. 14-6 Lot Coverage: The lot coverage in the R-MH (Manufactured Home Residential) Zone shall not be more than forty percent (40%). Amended February 2018 – Section 14-1 (d) Amended September 2005 – Sections 14-3 & 14-4  14 - 2   14-2  15 - 1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 15  R-2 (TWO-FAMILY) ZONE  15-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in the R-1 (One-family Residential) Zone, subject to the restrictions and regulations of the R-1 Zone. (b) Two-family Dwellings. 15-2 Special Exception: The following may be permitted in a R-2 Zone by Special Exception. (a) deleted May 2012 (b) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such transitional use does not extend more than one (100) feet from the boundary of the less restricted zone. 15-3 Height: The height provisions of the R-1 Zone shall apply to the R-2 (Two-family Residential) Zone. 15-4 Area: (a) Size of Tract: The maximum size of any tract to be zoned and developed under an R-2 Zone shall be one (1) acre. (b) Lot area per dwelling unit: The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet in an R-2 Zone. (c) Lot Area: Every tract in an R-2 Zone shall have a minimum width of fifty (50) feet and a minimum area of five thousand (5,000) square feet. (d) Lot Coverage: Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot shall be covered by buildings or structures in an R-2 Zone. 15-4 Setbacks: (a) Front Setbacks: The front yard setback provisions of Sections 8-11 shall apply to the R-2 (Two-family Residential) Zone. (b) Side Setbacks: The side yard setback provisions of Sections 8-11 of this Ordinance shall apply to the R-2 (Two-family Residential) Zone. (c) Rear Setbacks: The rear yard setback provisions of Sections 8-11 of this Ordinance shall apply to the R-2 (Two-family Residential) Zone. 15 - 2  15-5 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 15-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended May 2012, Section 15-2(a) Amended August, 2006, Section 15-2 (a) Amended Sept. 2004, Section 15-5    17 - 1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS SECTION 16 R-3A (MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 16-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in the R-2 (Two-family) Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the R-2 Zone; and (b) Multiple-family dwellings subject to meeting to the dumpster requirements in Section 16-3. (c)  Single-family attached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance with  Section 13 of this Ordinance, provided that the density of dwellings shall not  exceed the regulations set forth in Section 16-5 (a) of this Ordinance. Note: Multi-story condominiums are subject to meeting the dumpster requirements in Section 16-3. (d)  Family personal care homes subject to the criteria established in Section 26 of this  Ordinance. 16-2 Special Exception: The following may be permitted in the R-3A Zone by Special Exception. (a)  Relocated to 16-1(c) (b) Relocated to 16-1(d) (e)  Tourist House (d) Group personal care homes. (e) Fraternity or sorority houses. (f) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the boundary of the less restricted zone. (g) Lodging or Boarding House – subject to performance standards established in  Section 26-1 (u)  16-3 Dumpsters: Trash and recycling collection services must be provided for any multi- family dwelling that does not qualify for individual trash and recycling collection service. Trash and recycling collection services shall use stationary containers, commonly known as dumpsters and recyclable material bins. Collection trucks must be able to easily access dumpsters and recyclable material bins. These collection vehicles must be able to enter, service a dumpster or recyclable material bin, back up and depart without having to make unnecessary maneuvers. The path of these collection trucks shall not be obstructed by parked vehicles, medians, curbs, buildings, or other obstructions. Collection trucks must be able to lift the dumpster or recyclable material bin without obstruction from overhead wires or tree limbs. Dumpsters may not be placed on public streets, allies, sidewalks or any public property. The vehicle approach and container must be on the same grade in order to be serviceable. 17 - 2 Size of Dumpsters:  (1) A 4 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 800 pounds) must be provided for multi-family dwellings and multi-story condominiums with less than eight (8) units; (2) A 6 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 1200 pounds) must be provided for multi-family dwellings and multi-story condominiums with eight (8) to sixteen (16) units; (3) An 8 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 1600 pounds) must be provided for multi-family dwellings and multi-story condominiums with 17 - 24 units; (4) Multi-family dwelling units and multi-story condominiums with more than 25 units must provide the same unit to dumpster ratio as stated above. Dumpster sizes are calculated on once-a-week pick and dumpster size may be reduced by the Planning Commission with a written agreement for more frequent pick up. Dumpsters and recyclable material bins must be placed on a concrete surface large enough to support the container and the front wheels of the collection truck. No dumpster or recyclable material bin may be placed in a required parking space, within 10 feet of a fire hydrant or fire suppression connection, on any sidewalk (whether public or private), within any right-of-way (whether public or private), or in such a manner as to obstruct sight distances of vehicular traffic or traffic movement. Dumpster or recyclable material bin enclosures must be at least 12 feet wide to allow for adequate access for collection trucks. Enclosures with more than one container should add 10 feet of width per additional dumpster. Doors for such enclosures must be constructed so that the doors remain open while the dumpsters / bins are being serviced. If screening materials are placed around the enclosure, there must be two (2) fixed barrier guard posts placed on any side of the enclosure (excluding the front) subject to traffic movement. All dumpsters or recyclable material bins must either:  Have a roof, or  Have a drain that ties to the sanitary sewer. 16-4 Height: The height provisions of the R-2 (Two-family) Zone shall apply to the R-3A Zone. 16-5 Area: (a) Lot area per dwelling unit: The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be four thousand (4,000) square feet in an R-3A Zone. (b) Tract Area: Every tract in an R-3A Zone shall have a minimum width of eighty (80) feet and a minimum area of ten thousand (10,000) square feet. 16-6 Lot Coverage: The lot coverage provisions of the R-2 (Two-family) Zone shall apply to the R-3A Zone. 17 - 3 16-7 Setbacks: (a) Front Setbacks: The front yard setback provisions of Sections 8-8 of this Ordinance shall apply to the R-3A (Multiple-family) Zone. (b) Side Setbacks: The side yard setback provisions of Sections 8-8 of this Ordinance shall apply, provided when a side yard abuts a zone described in Sections 8-8 of this Ordinance, no structure may be constructed within 25 feet of the boundary of that zone. If a six (6) foot brick or stucco wall is constructed beginning at the front setback line and extending along the entire side property line adjoining the zone described in Sections 8-8 of this Ordinance, then the required setback shall be fifteen (15) feet. Where a side yard abuts a public street the provisions for front setbacks shall apply. (c) Rear Setbacks: The rear yard setback shall be the greater of twenty-five (25) feet or twenty (20) percent of the depth of the lot, but such yard need not exceed fifty (50) feet. 16-8 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 16-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended April 2020 -Dumpsters Amended August 2018 – Section 16-2 (g) Lodging or Boarding House Amended May 2012, Section 16-2-(b) (c) Amended August, 2006, Section 16-2 (b) Amended Sept. 2004, Section 16-8     17 - 4  RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 17  R-3B (MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE  17-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in the R-3A (Multiple-family Residential) Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the R-3A Zone; (b) Single-family attached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance with Section 13 of this Ordinance, provided that the density of dwellings shall not exceed the regulations set forth in Section 17-5 (a) of this Ordinance. (c) Deleted – See Special Exception (d) Family and group personal care homes. (e) Fraternity or sorority house. 17-2 Special Exception: The following may be permitted in the R-3B Zone by Special Exception: (a) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the boundary of the less restricted zone. (b)  Lodging or boarding home - subject to performance standards established in  Section 26-1 (u)  17-3 DELETED. 17-4 Height: Maximum height shall not exceed four (4) stories or seventy-five (75) feet, except that the height may be increased as provided for in Section 29 of this Ordinance. 17-5 Area: (a) Lot area per dwelling unit: The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet in an R-3B Zone. (b) Tract Area: The tract area provisions of the R-3A (Multiple-family Residential) Zone shall apply to the R-3B Zone. 17-6 Lot Coverage: The lot coverage provisions of the R-3A (Multiple-family Residential) Zone shall apply to the R-3B Zone. 17-7 Setbacks: (a) Front Setbacks: The front yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the R-3B Zone. (b) Side Setbacks: The side yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the R-3B Zone. (c) Rear Setbacks: The rear yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the R-3B Zone. 17 - 5 17-8 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 17-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended August 2018 – Section 17-2 Lodging or Boarding House Amended August 2006, Section 17-1 (b) Amended Sept. 2004, Section 17-8   18 - 1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 18  R-3C (MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE  18-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in the R-3B (Multiple-family Residential) Zone subject to the restrictions and regulation of the R-3B Zone; (b) Single-family attached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance with Section 13 of this Ordinance, provided that the density of dwellings shall not exceed the regulations set forth in Section 18-5 (a) of this Ordinance. (c) Congregate personal care homes. 18-2 Special Exceptions: The following may be permitted in the R-3C Zone by Special Exception: (a) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the boundary of the less restricted zone. (b)  Lodging or boarding home - subject to performance standards established in   Section 26-1 (u)  18-3 DELETED. 18-4 Height: Maximum height shall not exceed six (6) stories or one hundred and five (105) feet, except that the height may be increased as provided for in Section 29 of this Ordinance. 18-5 Area: (a) Lot area per dwelling unit: The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet in an R-3C Zone (b) Tract Area: The tract area provisions of the R-3A (Multiple-family Residential) Zone shall apply to the R-3C Zone. 18-6 Lot Coverage: Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the lot may be covered by buildings or structures. 18-7 Setbacks: (a) Front Setbacks: The front yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the R-3C. (b) Side Setbacks: The side yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the R-3C Zone. (c) Rear Setbacks: The rear yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the R-3C Zone. 18 - 2 18-8 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 18-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended August 2018 – Section 18-2 Lodging or Boarding House Amended August 2006, Section 18-1 (b) Amended Sept. 2004, Section 18-8   19 - 1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 19  PUD (PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT) ZONE  PURPOSE AND INTENT:  A Planned Unit Development (PUD) district allows projects that would not otherwise be permitted under this Ordinance because of the strict application of zoning district development standards or general site standards. Generally, the PUD district is intended for sites where a developer proposes and the City of Augusta desires to achieve a particular mix of uses, appearance, land use compatibility and/or apply special sensitivity to the site and area character. In return for greater flexibility in site design requirements, planned developments are expected to deliver innovative and exceptional quality community designs that preserve environmental, historic and cultural resources; incorporate creative design in the layout of buildings, open space and vehicular and pedestrian circulation; assure compatibility with surrounding land uses and area character; and, provide greater efficiency in the layout and provision of roads, and utilities and other infrastructure that would not otherwise be possible within a base zoning district. A. The standards and procedures of this district are intended to encourage: 1) Efficient and economic uses of land; 2) Flexibility to meet the changing needs, economics, and consumer preferences of the community; 3) Greater freedom in providing a mix of land uses in the same development, including a mix of housing types, lot sizes, densities and nonresidential uses to encourage variety and to avoid monotony; 4) Development to take advantage of special site characteristics, locations and land uses to protect environmentally sensitive areas and to promote better design; and 5) Permit the combining and coordinating of land uses, building types, and building relationships with a planned development, which otherwise, would not be provided under a conventional zoning district; 6) Encourage the assembly of properties that might otherwise be developed in unrelated increments; and 7) Provide usable and suitably located recreational facilities, open spaces, and scenic areas which are either commonly owned. 19-1 Permitted Uses A. A Planned Unit Development (PUD) may contain any or all of the uses specified in the approved PUD Development Plan. A wide range of uses is possible in a PUD district, and the specific uses allowed may be different in each PUD district. All uses that are identified in an approved development plan shall be permitted. Any uses not identified in the development plan shall not be permitted. The Augusta Commission has the discretion to require that certain uses be classified as limited uses or special uses. B. Proposed uses should fit within the context of the surrounding uses or can be considered a compatible use with surrounding uses or uses proposed within the PUD district. If proposed use cannot be considered to be compatible with surrounding uses or uses  19 - 2 proposed within PUD district, the Planned Unit Development may be rejected by either Planning Commission or the Augusta Commission. C. Mixed use developments are encouraged in designated PUD zoning districts with an emphasis on a mix of residential uses, recreational uses, and non-residential uses. D. A single residential use development or single non-residential development use is not permitted unless there are a minimum of three (3) different residential uses or a minimum of two (2) different types of non-residential uses, or a combination thereof. E. A Planned Unit Development designated area may amend the established uses through an amendment process. 19-2 General Development Requirements A. A Planned Unit Development is established by a rezoning of the property and the provisions of a Development Plan. B. The Development Plan establishes permitted, conditionally permitted and accessory uses; site plan, including the site area; street layout, including typical street sections; pedestrian facilities; open space areas; number of residential units by type; square footage of residential and non-residential units; preliminary landscaping plan, development regulations; architectural standards; phasing plan, if applicable; statement regarding consistency with the comprehensive plan and all other applicable plans; traffic study; other information necessary for the substantive and environmental review of the proposed project; and any other information deemed necessary by the Planning Director, or Deputy Director of Planning, or Development Services Manager or designee. C. All requirements of applicable ordinances should attempt to be met or exceeded by the Development Plan. D. Off-street parking shall be provided for each individual land use in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 4-3 of this Ordinance. The applicant may be permitted to utilize spaces located within the designated distance as specified in Section 4-3 of the Ordinance. E. Signs for the advertisement of businesses on the parcel of single-family detached dwellings are prohibited. 19-3 PUD Development Plan Requirements A. The applicant shall submit a Planned Unit Development (PUD) District Development Plan for the total area within the proposed development. If the Planned Unit Development is developed in phases, each phase shall include the total size, composition and arrangement to the extent that the construction operation is feasible and independent of any subsequent phases. Final approval shall be given only to one phase at a time. B. The following site development characteristics shall be determined and set in the approved development plan: I. Minimum lot area(s); II. Minimum lot width(s); III. Size(s) and location(s) of yard(s) and setback(s); IV. Maximum impervious surface ratio for individual lots and the development as a whole; V. Minimum and/or maximum building density, including total number of residential units and non-residential square footage permitted, broken down by type;  19 - 3 VI. Maximum structure height(s); VII. Open space shall be provided with all PUDs, and minimum open space shall be set by the development plan. For PUDs incorporating multi-family residential dwellings, a portion of the open space, complementary to the proposed design and lifestyle features of the proposed development, shall be reserved as common open space that shall be designated for the recreational or leisurely use by residents. VIII. Internal traffic calming strategies; IX. Location, size, and/or amount of bufferyard(s), screening, landscaping, and tree save areas; X. Layout of lots, lot coverage, streets, and any other infrastructure, including bicycle and pedestrian facilities, serving the development, if applicable; XI. Spacing and species of street trees to be installed; XII. Development-specific architectural design criteria; XIII. Location, size, and design of any permanent signage; XIV. Location of and specifications for site access and internal traffic circulation; and XV. Any other site-specific prescription(s) deemed necessary for the development of the site, as proposed. C. Roadway design and stormwater standards shall adhere to environmentally sensitive and aesthetically pleasing best management practices and development standards. D. A minimum of fifteen (15) percent of the usable project area shall be permanently allocated to open space. I. A portion of the required open space shall be centrally located within the development. Location and approximate size of the open space area shall be designated and approved by the planning commission as part of conceptual approval. II. For developments under ten (10) acres, the open space requirement may be satisfied by an existing or proposed public park or trail network that is within 1,300 feet of the development boundary. III. Stormwater infrastructure may not be counted toward the required open space, unless designed as part of a low-impact system that utilizes bio-swales and natural recharge areas. IV. Utility easements may not be counted toward the required open space, unless utilized as part of a common trail network or other amenity. E. Specific architectural design criteria shall be adopted as part of the overall plan for the site. F. Maximum impervious cover for individual building lots shall be specified in the development plan, with stormwater infrastructure designed accordingly. G. The site development characteristics prescribed by the approved development plan associated with a Planned Unit Development, shall supplant any conflicting standards for site development established in the Augusta-Richmond County Code of Ordinances. Any site development characteristics not prescribed in the approved plans for a planned unit  19 - 4 development shall be subject to the minimum standards, if applicable, established in the Augusta-Richmond County Code of Ordinances. H. If a property within the PUD District is subdivided it must be bound to the requirements of the approved PUD. I. Home Occupations are allowed for residential uses in accordance with Section 8-3 of the Augusta Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance 19-4 Planned Unit Development Application Review Procedures A. Schedule to meet with the Development Review Committee (DRC) to discuss project details with development services staff and receive general feedback on potential conflicts related to the proposed development. (Optional) B. The pre-application conference is a required informal discussion of the general concept of the proposed development. The applicant is expected to provide a concept plan for the proposed development and receive feedback from staff prior to filing of the application. The general concept plan must be provided along with the following information: I. Site Plan, approximately scaled 100 feet to 1 inch, and satisfies the general list of items included in the above section. II. Brief narrative or written statement describing the general design and architectural policies of the plan, time frame for a phased development, and any other information the developer believes may be useful to staff. III. Other relevant information required for rezoning approval. IV. Attend and participate at the Planning and Augusta Commission meetings for a final decision on the zoning request. (Required) V. If approved, project submittal of the PUD Site Plan package for departmental review. The Site Plan package shall contain the following information: a) Background information listing owner’s name, phone and address, developer’s name, address and phone, other related information included on the Site Plan application b) Engineered site plans c) Grading plans d) Appropriate fees e) Traffic analysis (varies on development) f) Other relevant information required by the Site Plan review  19-5 Changes in Property Ownership Except as provided in this Section, approved PUD plans shall be binding on the owner or group and any successor in title. 19-6 PUD Development Plan Revisions A. Minor Modifications of Final Plan – Minor changes in an approved PUD site plan may be handled administratively by the Planning Director on application by the applicant, upon making a finding that such changes: a) Do not increase density; b) Do not change the exterior boundaries or height; c) Do not increase the intensity of land use;  19 - 5 d) Do not materially change the location or amount of land devoted to specific land uses; e) Do not significantly change the exterior appearance of the project. Minor changes may include, but not be limited to minor shifting of buildings, proposed streets, public or private ways, utility easements, parks or other public open spaces, or other features of the plan. B. 19-8 Major Modifications of Final Approval – A proposed change not determined by the Planning Director or his/her designee to be minor shall be submitted as an amendment to the PUD and shall be processed in the same manner as the original PUD application for final development plan. AMENDED IN ITS ENTIRETY – August 2018  20 - 1 PROFESSIONAL/OFFICE DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 20  P-1 (PROFESSIONAL/OFFICE) ZONE  20-1 Permitted Uses: (a) General offices where no retail or wholesale sales are conducted resulting in the exchange of goods on the premises and where no vehicles or equipment other than standard passenger vehicles (cars, vans, and pickup trucks) are parked or stored on the premises. (b) Physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, and similar professional uses which may occupy an entire building or group of buildings. (c) DELETED. (d) Branch banks or other financial institutions. (e) Freestanding Automated Teller Machines. (f) DELETED. (g) Provision of the following services where no retail or wholesale activities are conducted on the premises: insurance, finance, mortgage, accounting, appraisal, business consultant, real estate, and other similar services. (h) Beauty shops, barber shops. (i) Uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses located within the same building or group of buildings and accessory buildings, when located on the same lot, including garages for the use of patrons and for employees. (j) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the boundary of the less restricted zone. (k) Fence, walls: A fence, latticework screen, or wall in a required side or rear yard shall not exceed six (6) feet in height. A fence, latticework screen, or wall located in a required front yard shall be limited to four (4) feet in height. Any fence, wall, or landscape feature located at the corner of intersection streets described in Section 3-6 of this Ordinance shall be subject to additional restrictions discussed in that subsection. (l) Any office or professional use which is similar in character or nature to the above mentioned uses upon approval and resolution of the Augusta- Richmond County Planning Commission may be permitted in a P-1 zone. 20-2 Special Exceptions: The following Specials Exceptions shall apply in a P-1 Zone and may be permitted upon approval of the location by the Augusta Commission:  (a) Facilities for public or private assembly such as conference center, convention centers, meeting rooms, hospitality facilities (if utilized for more than fourteen total days per calendar year), and facilities utilized for similar social events. Applications for special exceptions pursuant to this subsection shall be accompanied by supportive documentation which describes in detail the This supporting documentation shall illustrate conformity to the following objective and subjective criteria. Special exceptions granted pursuant to this subsection shall be specifically for the use described, and they shall be invalid  20 - 2 and automatically rescinded if the use changes substantially or ceases to exist for a period of one year:  (1) Exterior lighting shall be designed so that the light is reflected away from adjacent properties; (2) If there are any single-family residences on adjoining properties then all outdoor activities shall cease at 11:00 P.M.; (3) Only one sign per street front shall be permitted. Such sign may identify the business only, not to exceed 24 square feet in area, and extend not higher than six feet above the ground. No such sign may be internally lighted; (4) Alcoholic beverages may not be sold on the premises. An open bar where guests are not charged for drinks may be provided; (5) The volume of amplified sound shall be kept at such a level that it is not audible from any single-family residence; (6) Parking facilities shall be provided as the staff deems necessary; (7) The design and scale of any improvements shall be consistent with the surrounding area; (8) Improvements shall conform to all appropriate provisions of the Tree Ordinance; and (9) Additional conditions may be imposed if deemed appropriate to the proposed use and location. (b) Any use set forth in the R-3C zone, subject to the restrictions and regulations of the R-3C Zone. 20-3 Height: Not to exceed three (3) stories nor higher than fifty-five (55) feet. 20-4 Setbacks: Front Yard: The front yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the P-1 Zone; Side Yard: The side yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the P-1 Zone; Rear Yard: The rear yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the P-1 Zone. 20-5 Maximum Individual Building Area: No individual building, whether freestanding or attached as part of a planned center or similar group of buildings, may be constructed in excess of 15,000 gross square feet in area after the effective date of the Ordinance amendment. 20 - 3  20-6 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 20-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended June 2005, Section 20-1 (l) Amended Sept. 2004, Section 20-6    21 - 1 BUSINESS DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 21  B-1 (NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS) ZONE  21-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in the P-1 (Professional/Office) Zone or the R-3C (Multiple- family Residential) Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the respective Zone. (b) The following uses are authorized in a B-1 Zone:  (1) Apparel store  (2) Bakery  (3) DELETED. (4) DELETED. (5) Dry cleaning and laundry establishment, excluding steam and power laundries, operated in conjunction with customer service counters and limited to the dry cleaning and laundering of articles delivered to the premises by individual customers provided, however, that no materials may be used in any laundering or cleaning process which are explosive, inflammable, combustible, or toxic in greater degree than Perchlorethlylene or equivalent, and provided further that no odor, fumes, or other nuisance producing agents are expelled in such a way as to be detectable beyond the property line of the property used for such businesses. (6) Medical equipment and medical supply store (7) Drive-in type retail business where a customer is waited upon in an off- street parking area, or where a customer conducts business directly from a vehicle with an agent in the building. (8) Drug store  (9) Dry goods or notions store  (10) Florist or gift shop  (11) Grocery, fruit or vegetable market  (12) Hardware or electric appliance store  (13) Jewelry store  (14) Health spa, tanning booth, massage therapy establishment  (15) Meat market or delicatessen 16) Motel (a) DELETED. (b) There shall be staff or management on duty 24 hours per day 7 days per week; (c) Each guest room shall have a minimum area of 280 square feet; (d) No business license shall be issued for any business operated from any guest room; and (e) No more than half of the total number of guest rooms shall have kitchenettes or any kitchen facilities. (17) Music store  (18) Newsstand  (19) Video rental store  21 - 2  (20) DELETED  (21) Photographer (including sale of supplies and equipment) (22) Café having a seating capacity of less than 40 persons and conducted consistent with Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses for eating establishments. Restaurant having a seating capacity of at least 40 persons and conducted consistent with Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses for eating establishments. (23) DELETED. (24) Shoe store and shoe repair shop  (25) Supermarket  (26) Tailor  (27) Variety store (28) Churches, parochial and private schools, transitional housing, family day care homes, adult day care facilities, private hospitals, clubs (public and private), and nursing homes. These uses are also permitted by Special Exception in other zones discussed in Section 26-1 of this Ordinance. Uses which would in any way involve detained persons, or persons who would be or have been released from correctional facilities such as halfway homes, or similar uses that in any way relate to corrections or incarceration may not be permitted by right in the B-1 zone. (29) Veterinarian Clinic (no outside kennels allowed) (30) Deleted May 2013 (31) Establishments having less than three video electronic games or amusements on site in conjunction with a permitted use other than a use specializing in or characterized as a video electronic game room, arcade, or similarly defined establishment. Where the property line of the permitted use is located within 1500 feet of any property line of any private or public educational institution having all or some combination of grades kindergarten through twelfth, no electronic games or amusements are allowed. (32) Construction Trailers Subject to the following: a) A Manufactured Home permit shall be acquired from the Augusta Planning and Development Department; b) The location for the Construction Trailer shall be shown and approved on a Site Plan. Said location shall be as far removed from and buffered from residential areas and public streets as practical; c) The Construction Trailer shall be tied down and underpinned; and d) The Construction Trailer shall be removed from the property prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy. (33) Group day care homes and day care centers. (c) The above specified businesses, stores, or shops shall be retail or service establishments only. (d) Any business which is similar in character or nature to the above mentioned uses upon approval and resolution of the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission may be permitted in a B-1 Zone. 21 - 3 (e) Shopping Centers: The petitioner shall submit to the Augusta Planning and Development Department a preliminary development plan for the shopping center showing the arrangement of the buildings, off-street parking, internal traffic movement and service facilities which are feasible for the property on which the center is to be located. The petitioner shall plan the center to minimize any adverse effects on the property surrounding the proposed development. The preliminary plot plan shall show the following: (1) Topographic features of the proposed development and the area within two hundred (200) feet of the center. (2) Proposed off-street parking layout. (3) Loading zones. (4) Planting areas. (5) Driveways, entrances, and exits. (6) General drainage system. (7) Sign locations. (8) Walkways. (9) Water and gas mains. (10) Power source. (g) Lodging or Boarding House – subject to performance standards established in   Section 26-1 (u) (h) All allowable uses in the B-1 zone shall be subject to the dumpster requirements    in Section 21-3. 21-2 Special Exceptions:  The following may be permitted in a B-1 Zone by Special Exception:  Application for such a Special Exception shall include a Conceptual Plan showing the size and elevation of all buildings to be built on the site, proposed ingress and egress, buffering if any beyond the minimum requirements of the Tree Ordinance, and all proposed sign locations. The proposed use of the property shall also be disclosed. a) Individual buildings - Individual buildings, whether freestanding or attached as part of a shopping center or similar group of buildings, which would exceed 15,000 gross square feet of area may be permitted by special exception in B-1 zones if they generally conform to the following subjective and objective criteria:   Surrounding area – the nature of the surrounding area is not predominantly residential with only a few commercial uses interspersed;  Location – the property is located at or within 500 feet of the intersection of two arterial streets  Nature of the use – the goods and services to be offered cater generally to the surrounding area such as a drug store or a grocery store, not to the city as a whole such as a large appliance store. b) Convenience Stores - Convenience stores may be permitted by Special Exception in B-1 zones if they generally conform to the following subjective and objective criteria:   21 - 4    Hours of operation – the establishment would not be open for business more than 18 hours per day  Illumination – the entire site would not be illuminated as a way to attract attention, but rather to a level consistent with security and identification of the business  Location – the property is located at or within 500 feet of the intersection of arterial streets or within 500 feet of such an intersection  Surrounding area – the nature of the surrounding area is not predominantly residential with only a few commercial uses interspersed  Video games/Amusements - video games/nor similar amusements are to be located on the property  c) Liquor Store – Liquor stores may be permitted by Special Exception in B-1 zones if they generally conform to the following subjective and objective criteria:   Surrounding area – the nature of the surrounding area is not predominantly residential with only a few commercial uses interspersed;  Location – the property is at the intersection of two arterial streets or within 500 feet of such an intersection;  Proximity to public places – the property is not within 1000 feet of a public park or recreation area, school or library  d) A Tavern having a seating capacity of less than 40 persons conducted consistent with Section 6-2-51 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses (excluding dancing and entertainment). (e) Special Entertainment Permit with the following restrictions:  The permit is nontransferable;  The permit is subject to renewal annually by the Augusta Commission.  Pursuant to Augusta City Code, Chapter 6 – Noise, Section 3-6-2 – Noises Enumerated. 21-3 Dumpsters: Trash and recycling collection services must be provided for all B-1 uses. Trash and recycling collection services shall use stationary containers, commonly known as dumpsters and recyclable material bins. Collection trucks must be able to easily access dumpsters and recyclable material bins. These collection vehicles must be able to enter, service a dumpster or recyclable material bin, back up and depart without having to make unnecessary maneuvers. The path of these collection trucks shall not be obstructed by parked vehicles, medians, curbs, buildings, or other obstructions. Collection trucks must be able to lift the dumpster or recyclable material bin without obstruction from overhead wires or tree limbs. 21 - 5 Dumpsters may not be placed on public streets, allies, sidewalks or any public property. The vehicle approach and container must be on the same grade in order to be serviceable. Size of Dumpsters:  (1) A 2 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 400 pounds) must be provided for small-volume businesses, such as offices with less than 20 employees, boutiques, or coffee shops and restaurants serving roughly 100 customers a day; (2) A 4 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 800 pounds) must be provided for medium-size businesses, including companies with up to 100 employees; retailers, entertainment venues, and government offices occupying less than 5,000 square feet; convenience stores, and mid-size restaurants; and rental properties, multi-family dwellings and multi-story condominiums with less than eight (8) units; (3) A 6 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 1200 pounds) must be provided for schools, retail spaces of up to 10,000 square feet in size, office spaces occupying up to 15,000 square feet, hotels, large offices and retail plazas; and rental properties, multi-family dwellings and multi-story condominiums with eight (8) to sixteen (16) units; (4) An 8 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 1600 pounds) must be provided for universities, hotels and large retailers occupying up to 25,000 square feet; offices with up to 500 employees; grocery stores, shipping centers and manufacturing facilities; and rental properties, multi-family dwellings and multi-story condominiums with 17 - 24 units; (5) Larger commercial facilities must provide the same square footage to dumpster ratio as stated above. Rental properties, multi-family dwelling units and multi-story condominiums with more than 25 units must provide the same unit to dumpster ratio as stated above. Dumpster sizes are calculated on once-a-week pick and dumpster size may be reduced by the Planning Commission with a written agreement for more frequent pick up. Dumpsters and recyclable material bins must be placed on a concrete surface large enough to support the container and the front wheels of the collection truck. No dumpster or recyclable material bin may be placed in a required parking space, within 10 feet of a fire hydrant or fire suppression connection, on any sidewalk (whether public or private), within any right-of-way (whether public or private), or in such a manner as to obstruct sight distances of vehicular traffic or traffic movement. Dumpster or recyclable material bin enclosures must be at least 12 feet wide to allow for adequate access for collection trucks. Enclosures with more than one container should add 10 feet of width per additional dumpster. Doors for such enclosures must be constructed so that the doors remain open while the dumpsters / bins are being serviced. If screening materials are placed around the enclosure, there must be two (2) fixed barrier guard posts placed on any side of the enclosure (excluding the front) subject to traffic movement. 21 - 6 All dumpsters or recyclable material bins must either:  Have a roof, or  Have a drain that ties to the sanitary sewer. 21-4 DELETED. 21-5 Maximum height of buildings in a B-1 Zone shall not exceed three (3) stories nor exceed fifty-five (55) feet in height. 21-6 Setbacks: (a) Front Setback: The front yard setback requirements in Section 8 shall apply to the B-1 (Neighborhood Business) Zone. (b) Side Setback: (1) Where the side yard of a lot in a B-Zone abuts the side of a lot in an R- Zone, there shall be a side yard of not less than five (5) feet for each story of twelve (12) feet in height, but such side yard shall not be less than ten (10) feet in width. In all other cases, a side yard for a commercial building shall not be required, but if provided, it shall not be less than three (3) feet in width. (2) On a corner lot in a B-Zone which abuts an R-Zone, there shall be provided a side yard on the side street equal in depth to the required front yard on said side street. (c) Rear Setback: (1) Where the B-Zone abuts an R-Zone, there shall be a rear yard the greater of twenty (20) percent of the depth of the lot or twenty (20) feet, but such rear yard shall not exceed fifty (50) feet. In all other cases no rear yard shall be required, but if provided, it shall not be less than three (3) feet in depth. 21-7 Maximum Individual Building Area: No individual building, whether freestanding or attached as part of a shopping center or similar group of buildings, may be constructed in excess of 15,000 gross square feet in area after the effective date of the Ordinance amendment, except as provided for at 21- 2(a). 21-8 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 21-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. 21-9 Conditional Use Permit:  21 - 7 (a) Brewpub (b) Pico Brewery Performance Standards: a) Licensing: The applicant shall obtain all necessary state and local level licensing for the production, wholesale and retail sale of alcoholic beverages;  b) Production: For the purposes of retail sales, consumption on premises or package goods, the State of Georgia has set a limit of 500 barrels for distilled spirits and 3,000 barrels for malt beverages. Package sales are limited to three 750 milliliter bottles of spirits and 288 ounces of malt beverage per person per day. The Augusta Commission may further limit the sales per the approval of the Conditional Use Permit;  c) Off-Street Loading and Unloading: The facility shall provide for off-street loading and unloading for all trucks greater than 22 feet in length. In the absence of a loading area, the Planning Commission may impose limits on deliveries or shipments using public-rights-of-way including the number of trucks per day and hours permitted. Loading docks shall be located and designed so as not to be visible from adjoining public streets;  d) Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 4-2(d)(10) or 4-3(c)(l)of this Ordinance;  e) Signage: Signage shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Sections 28-B-8 and 28-B-9 of this Ordinance;  f) Outdoor Storage: There shall be no outdoor storage with the exception of solid waste handling which occurs in an enclosure fully screened from adjoining streets;  g) Odors: The operator shall install all standard or necessary equipment so that detectable odors coming from the business are eliminated from the property to prevent a public nuisance;  h) Water and Sewerage: The facility shall be serviced by public water and sewer. At no time will a septic system be considered adequate;  i) Hours of Operation: The applicant shall identify hours of operation both for production and service to the public. Application for Approval: All applications for a Conditional Use Permit shall be accompanied by the following:  a) A Site Plan, to scale, of the property showing all parking and loading areas, trash enclosures, buffers and other improvements;   21 - 8  b) A floor plan showing all seating, production and storage areas and loading docks;  c) A letter of intent describing the proposed use/project - to include hours of operation;  d) Notarized copy of the property owner’s signature permitting the applicant to act as agent when not the owner;  e) Photographs of site/building. Conditional Use Permit:  Any use, established as a result of the granting of a Conditional Use Permit must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or it shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Conditional Use Permit is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Conditional Use Permit shall no longer be valid. Amended April 2020 - Dumpsters Amended August 2018 – Section 21-1 Lodging or Boarding House Amended August 2017 – Brewpub and Pico Distillery, Conditional Use Permit Amended June 2017 - added to Special Exception (e) Special Entertainment Amended Sept. 2013 – added 21-1(33) Group Day Care Homes and Day Care Centers Amended May 2013 – deleted 21-1(30) Group Day Care Homes and Day Care Centers Amended Sept. 2004, Section 21-8 Amended January 2005 – Section 21-1 (b)(32) Amended May 2009 –Section 21-2 Amended July 2011- Section 21-1(b) Amended July 2011 – Section 21-2(d)  21 - 9   21-9  22 - 1 BUSINESS DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 22  B-2 (GENERAL BUSINESS) ZONE  22-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in the B-1 (Neighborhood Business) Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the B-1 Zone. (b) The following uses are authorized in a B-2 (General Business) Zone:  (1) Stores and shops for the conducting of any retail business. (2) Cafes, restaurants, taverns and drinking establishments (nightclubs) (3) Theaters, billiard or pool parlors, bowling alleys, skating rinks, or similar recreational uses or places of assembly, and establishments having less than three (3) video or electronic games or amusements on site in conjunction with another permitted use other than a use or place specialized in or characterized as being a video or electronic game room, arcade, or similarly-defined establishment except where the property line of the other permitted use lies within fifteen hundred (1,500) feet of the property line of any public or private educational institution having all or some combination of grades kindergarten through twelfth. (4) Telephone offices and call centers. (5) Baking, confectionery, dressmaking, dyeing, laundry, printing, tailoring, upholstering, and similar establishments, and businesses of a similar and no more objectionable character; subject to the following provisions: All goods or products manufactured or processed shall be sold on the premises. All such manufacturing and processing shall be done on the premises. (6) Golf Driving ranges subject to the following: (a) That the minimum size of a tract to be used as a golf driving range be ten (10) acres, (b) That a one-hundred (100) foot buffer area be required between surrounding properties and the golf driving range operation. (7) Public parking garages, automobile parking lots and automobile sales lots. (8) Flea Markets: Goods may be displayed outside buildings during daily business operations, but goods must be stored inside buildings when daily business operations cease. Buildings utilized in conjunction with flea markets must conform to all appropriate codes. Prospective flea market license applicants must also conform with Section 3 of Augusta, Georgia Ordinance Number 84-4. (9)  Mini-warehouses / Self-Service-Storage Facilities subject to the following:  (a) Lot size: Minimum lot size is two acres. (b) Lot coverage: Lot coverage of all structures, including parking, shall be limited to seventy percent (70%) of the total area. The remaining 30% of the property shall be in tree canopy pursuant to the Augusta Tree Ordinance. (c) Ingress / Egress: Vehicular ingress-egress shall be limited to one (1) access point for all non-emergency vehicles, sufficient in width  22 - 2 for unobstructed movement of large trucks and Fire Department vehicles, for each adjoining public street. If only one adjoining street is available adjacent to the site, a second entrance must be provided for emergency vehicles. Vehicular ingress-egress shall be sufficient for unobstructed movement of all emergency vehicles as required by the Augusta Fire Department. (d) Storage: All storage must be contained within a fully-enclosed building; however the storage of boats, recreation vehicles, or other similar vehicles may be allowed if all such vehicles are deemed “road ready” (tagged and operational) and are covered and completely screened from view of any adjoining residential lots. (e) Storage only: No individual rental storage unit shall be used for any purpose other than storage. (1) Refrigerated units shall be allowed, but the total number of refrigerated units may not exceed 10% of the total number of units within the overall Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facility  (f) Allowable uses include:  (1) Mini-Warehouses / Self-Service-Storage Facilities whether direct-access or internal access through a doorway and common hallway (2) Indoor multi-story Mini-Warehouses / Self-Service-Storage Facilities (aka “Vertical Self Storage”) – accessed through an office or secured doors; elevators must be provided and building height is limited to:  2-1/2 stories or 45 feet adjacent to A, all R-1 zones, R-MH, R- 2, R-3A and PUD zones  3 stories or 55 feet adjacent to P-1 or B-1 zones  4 stories or 75 feet adjacent to R-3B, R-3C, B-2, LI or HI zones    Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service Storage Facilities over the height  requirements listed above must be approved by Special Exception  pursuant to Section 22-2-(g). A minimum of 4, 10’ x 30’ foot, loading / unloading zones must be provided adjacent to, or as close as possible to, each elevator. Indoor multi-story Mini-Warehouses / Self-Service-Storage Facilities (also referred to as “Vertical Self Storage”) adjacent to residential uses in all R zones may contain brick, stucco, glass and other similar design elements in order to reduce the  22 - 3 negative aesthetic impact of long, large expansive wall surfaces. All building side and rear facades must match the front façade in usage of design elements. The variation in wall surfaces can be accomplished either by physical offsets or by the use of color, pattern, or texture, but in no case shall metal comprise more than 25% of the building material list on the face of the building. Metal roofs may be utilized, but in no case shall mechanical units, satellite dishes or other similar equipment be visible, and this type of equipment shall be screened from public view by the extension of a parapet wall or other roof mounted screening feature having the same design features as the building including material, shape and color considerations. (3) Climate controlled Mini-Warehouses or Self-Service-Storage  facilities; one story or multiple stories  (g) Mini-Warehouse or Self-Service-Storage units containing loading docks may be made available for box trucks or smaller trucks, but in no case shall units with loading docks be made available for larger trucks such as 18-wheelers. (i)  Limited accommodations for overnight managerial or security staff  are allowed, if accommodated inside the main office building. Overnight accommodations in a storage unit are strictly prohibited. (j)  Security: All such Mini-Warehouses and Self-Service Storage  facilities must be fenced and gated with adequate lighting to allow  24-hour access to all rented or leased spaces. Security cameras  must be installed at all security gates and building accesses. (k)  Bufferyards and screening: Mini-Warehouses / Self-Service  Storage Facilities shall meet the 10’ side bufferyard requirement  and the 20’ rear bufferyard requirement against all R (Residential)  zones - one-family, two-family and multi-family - with fence and  planting requirements as found in the Augusta Tree Ordinance;  otherwise a side and rear bufferyard shall not be required. (l) All Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facilities are required to  meet the Amerian with Disabilities Act (ADA) regulations passed in  2010, unless the property already meets the original ADA standards  written in 1991. Any renovation of an existing Mini-Warehouse /  Self-Service-Storage Facility or development of new facilities must  be designed to meet the 2010 ADA regulations. Specifically:  1. Five percent (5%) of the first 200 units must be wheelchair accessible. Two percent (2%) of the remaining units must also be wheelchair accessible. These wheelchair accessible units should be dispersed among the different types of units that the  22 - 4 Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facility provides. However, Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facilities in existence on March 15, 2012 are not required to add additional wheelchair accessible units to have one in each type. (10)  Travel Trailer Parks subject to restrictions in Section 28-E (11) Business Parks, mixed use facilities where fifty (50) percent or more of the gross leasable area of buildings is designed for and occupied by commercial, retail, or service tenants, and the remainder is occupied by wholesale, storage, or warehouse facilities. Adequate parking pursuant to Section 4 of this Ordinance must be provided prior to the issuing of a certificate of occupancy. No materials, machinery, equipment or products may be stored outside of buildings in a business park. No loading doors shall be visible from a public road or from any R-1 (One-family Residential) Zone. All delivery vehicles must be parked in the designated loading areas. (12) Video electronic game rooms or arcades. Prospective applicants for licenses to operate electronic game rooms or arcades must conform with Section 6-6-45 of the Augusta, Georgia Code. (13) Automobile service stations and automobile repair garages where no body or fender repairs take place, provided that: (a) All repair work and vehicle storage shall be conducted within an area enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or finished board fence not less than six (6) feet in height and maintained in good condition at all times; (b) No dismantling of vehicles to obtain auto parts or other such activity shall be conducted; (c) Such use shall be located at least one hundred (100) feet from any residential district or use; (d) There shall be no opening in said building on any side facing a residential district or use other than a stationary window; and (e) Nonconforming automobile repair garages and automobile service stations shall be made to conform with Subsections (a) & (b) of Section 22-1 (13) of this Ordinance. (14) Gun Shops (15) Pawn Shops  (16) Funeral Homes  (17) Car Wash  (18) Hotel - subject to the following restrictions and regulations:  (a) There shall be no direct vehicular access to any guest room; (b) There shall be staff or management on duty 24 hours per day seven days per week;  (c) Each guest room shall have a minimum of 280 square feet; (d) No business license shall be issued for any business operated from any guest room; and (e) No more than half of the total number of guest rooms shall have kitchenettes or any kitchen facilities. (19) Liquor stores. (20) Convenience stores. 22 - 5 (21) Fence, walls: A fence, latticework screen, or wall in a required front, side or rear yard shall not exceed six (6) feet in height. Any fence, wall or landscape feature located at the corner of intersecting streets described in Section 3-6 of this Ordinance shall be subject to additional restrictions discussed in that subsection. (22) Crematoriums– subject to the following restrictions and regulations. (a)  Cremation facilities are allowed as an accessory use wherein the   funeral home is identified as the primary use. (b)  Accessory cremation facilities shall be located at least two   hundred (200) feet from contiguous properties zoned or developed   for residential use. (c)  Cremation facilities that are considered “stand-alone” shall be   located at least two thousand five hundred (2,500) feet from   contiguous properties zoned or developed for residential use. (d)  Cremation facilities shall be consistent with all applicable state   permit and licensing requirements. (e)  No crematory incinerator shall have a discharge of smoke that   exceeds ten percent (10%) ambient air. (f)  The owner/operator shall record the hours of operation and total   daily cremation rate for the facility:  i. No cremation activity on Monday – Friday between the hours of 5 PM - 9 PM and during the weekend, 4 PM - 9 PM. Such activity shall not include the cooling down period of the furnace which may take 1 to 2 hours. ii. Each human crematory operation shall record the daily cremation rate in bodies per day. iii. Each animal crematory operation shall record the daily cremation rate in pounds per day. (g)  Cremation facilities shall be consistent with all applicable state   permit and licensing requirements. (h)  Records of the daily cremation rate and the facility’s hours of   operation shall be maintained on site in written or electronic logs. (23) All uses in the B-2 zone shall be subject to the dumpster requirements in Section 21-3. 22-2 Special Exceptions: The following may be permitted in a B-2 Zone by Special Exception: (a) Automobile body and fender repair provided that: (1) All repair work and vehicle storage shall be conducted within an area enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or finished board fence not less than six (6) feet in height; and (2) No dismantling of vehicles to obtain auto parts or other such activity shall be conducted; and (3) Such use shall be located at least one hundred (100) feet from any residential district or use. 22 - 6 (b) DELETED. (c) Collection of materials for recycling subject to the following restrictions: (1) No volume reduction or physical or chemical alteration of collected materials may be conducted; and (2) All materials upon collection shall be expeditiously placed inside a building, truck trailer, or other enclosure. No collected materials may be stored outside such an enclosure at the end of the normal business day. (d) Hotel, Extended Stay - subject to the following restrictions and regulations: 1) There shall be no direct vehicular access to any guest room; 2) There shall be staff or management on duty 24 hours per day seven days per week; 3) Each guest room shall have a minimum of 280 square feet; 4) No business license shall be issued for any business operated from any guest room; 5) No outside storage or permanent parking of equipment or vehicles shall be permitted; 6) No buildings constructed under this section may be converted to or used as apartments or condominiums; and 7) A preliminary plan shall be submitted showing the proposed layout of buildings, ingress/egress, buffers and landscaping, amenities, and the density of development. This preliminary plan shall be a consideration in granting the Special Exception. (e) Motel, Extended Stay - subject to the following restrictions and regulations: 1) DELETED. 2) There shall be staff or management on duty 24 hours per day seven days per week; 3) Each guest room shall have a minimum of 280 square feet; 4) No business license shall be issued for any business operated from any guest room; 5) A preliminary plan shall be submitted showing the proposed layout of buildings, ingress/egress, buffers and landscaping, amenities, and the density of development. This preliminary plan shall be a consideration in granting the Special Exception; 6) No vehicle storage or permanent parking of equipment or vehicles shall be permitted; and 7) No buildings constructed under this section may be converted to or used as apartments or condominiums. (f) Business parks - as defined in Section 22-1 (11) where thirty (30) percent or more of the gross leasable area of buildings is designed for and occupied by commercial, retail, or service tenants, and the remainder is occupied by wholesale, storage, or warehouse facilities. (g)  Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facilities over 4 stories or 75 feet must be     approved by Special Exception under the guidelines set forth in Permitted Uses     (Section 22-1- b-9)  22-3 The maximum height of a professional or commercial building or structure in the B-2 Zone shall not exceed one hundred sixty-five (165) feet. 22-4 The setback provisions of the B-1 Zone shall apply to the B-2 Zone. 22 - 7  22-5 Maximum Individual Building Area: There shall be no maximum individual building area in the B-2 (General Business) Zone. 22-6 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 22-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. 22-7 Conditional Use Permit:  (a) Pico Brewery  (b) Pico Distillery (c) Nano Brewery  (d) Nano Distillery Performance Standards: a) Licensing: The applicant shall obtain all necessary state and local level licensing for the production, wholesale and retail sale of alcoholic beverages;  b) Production: For the purposes of retail sales, consumption on premises or package goods, the State of Georgia has set a limit of 500 barrels for distilled spirits and 3,000 barrels for malt beverages. Package sales are limited to three 750 milliliter bottles of spirits and 288 ounces of malt beverage per person per day. The Augusta Commission may further limit the sales per the approval of the Conditional Use Permit;  c) Off-Street Loading and Unloading: The facility shall provide for off-street loading and unloading for all trucks greater than 22 feet in length. In the absence of a loading area, the Planning Commission may impose limits on deliveries or shipments using public-rights-of-way including the number of trucks per day and hours permitted. Loading docks shall be located and designed so as not to be visible from adjoining public streets;  d) Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 4-2(d)(10) or 4-3 (c)(1) of this Ordinance;  e) Signage: Signage shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Sections 28-B-8 and 28-B-9 of this Ordinance;   22 - 8 f) Outdoor Storage: There shall be no outdoor storage with the exception of solid waste handling which occurs in an enclosure fully screened from adjoining streets;  g) Odors: The operator shall install all standard or necessary equipment so that detectable odors coming from the business are eliminated from the property to prevent a public nuisance;  h) Water and Sewerage: The facility shall be serviced by public water and sewer. At no time will a septic system be considered adequate;  i) Hours of Operation: The applicant shall identify hours of operation both for production and service to the public. Application for Approval: All applications for a Conditional Use Permit shall be accompanied by the following:  a) A Site Plan, to scale, of the property showing all parking and loading areas, trash enclosures, buffers and other improvements;  b) A floor plan showing all seating, production and storage areas and loading docks;  c) A letter of intent describing the proposed use/project - to include hours of operation;  d) Notarized copy of the property owner’s signature permitting the applicant to act as agent when not the owner;  e) Photographs of site/building. Conditional Use Permit:  Any use, established as a result of the granting of a Conditional Use Permit must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or it shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Conditional Use Permit is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Conditional Use Permit shall no longer be valid. Amended – August 2018 – Mini-Warehouses Amended – August 2017- Pico Brewery & Distillery, Nano Brewery & Distillery Amended - August 2015 – Section 22-1 (22) Amended - April 2013 – Section 22-(b) – (10) Amended - August 2011, Section 22-2 (b) (2)  22 - 9 Amended - Sept. 2008, Section 22-2 (f) Amended - Sept. 2007, Section 22-3   23 - 1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 23  LI (LIGHT INDUSTRIAL) ZONE  23-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in the B-2 (General Business) Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the B-2 Zone. (b) The following uses are authorized in the LI Zone:  (1) Wholesale, storage, and warehouse facilities. (2) Lumber, feed, or other similar storage yards, but not salvage yards, coal yards, or junkyards. (3) Uses of light manufacturing nature. Manufacturing establishments and operations other than those classified as heavy industry (Section 24), which are housed within a building and emit no excessive noise, dust, or vibrations beyond the property on which the establishment is located. (4) Automobile body and fender repair provided that all repair work and vehicle storage shall be conducted within an area enclosed on all sides by a solid wall, or finished fence not less than six (6) feet in height. (5) Storage of construction equipment and other heavy equipment, and trucks in excess of one (1) ton capacity and having three (3) or more axles. (6) Collection of materials for recycling subject to the following restrictions:  (a) No volume reduction or physical or chemical alteration of  collected materials may be conducted; and (b) All materials upon collection shall be expeditiously placed inside a  building, truck trailer, or other enclosure. No collected materials may be stored outside such an enclosure at the end of the normal business day. (7) Animal Kennel  (8) Brewery, Distillery, Micro-brewery, Nano Brewery, Pico Brewery, Nano Distillery and Pico Distillery  23-2 Uses prohibited in an LI Zone: (a) Any use that may be noxious or injurious by reason of the production or emission of dust, refuse matter, odor, gas fumes, noise, vibrations, radiation, or similar substances or conditions. (b) Residential use is specifically prohibited. 23-3 Height: The maximum height of a building or structure in a LI Zone shall not exceed one hundred sixty-five (165) feet. 23-4 Area: The entire lot in an LI Zone may be covered with the exception of mandatory open spaces hereinafter required. 23 - 2 23-5 Setbacks: (a) Front yard, forty (40) feet. (b) Side yards, ten (10) feet each. (c) Rear yard, twenty-five (25) feet. 23-6 Distance from an R-Zone: Industrial activities, including construction of buildings for industrial use, storage of materials, and loading facilities shall not be located within 50 feet of a R-Zone boundary. Parking of vehicles except for automobiles that are used by employees and customers shall not be permitted within 50 feet of an R-Zone boundary. 23-7 DELETED. Amended – August 2017 – Brewery, Distillery etc.. Amended - March 5, 2013 - Section 23-1(7)  25 - 1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 24  HI (HEAVY INDUSTRIAL) ZONE  24-1 Permitted Uses: (a) Any use permitted in an LI (Light Industry) Zone, subject to the rules and regulations of the LI Zone. (b) DELETED. (c) Uses customarily incidental to the above uses and necessary buildings when located on the same lot. (d) The following uses provided, however, no building, structure, or portion thereof, shall be hereafter erected, converted, or otherwise used for residential purposes:  (1) Acetylene gas manufacture and storage  (2) Alcohol manufacture  (3) Deleted  (4) Asphalt manufacture or refining  (5) Deleted  (6) Boiler works  (7) Central station light or power plant  (8) Deleted  (9) Concrete, cement products, or clay manufacture  (10) Cotton gin  (11) Deleted (12) Gas manufacture from coal or petroleum or the storage thereof  (13) Deleted  (14) Meat products manufacture (15) Deleted  (16) Planing Mill  (17) Plaster manufacture  (18) Plastic manufacture  (19) Potash works  (20) Power forge  (21) Excavation of mineral deposits including but not limited to stone, sand, clay, gravel, and operations incidental thereto. (22) Deleted (23) Manufacturing of other products that is not noxious or offensive by reason of emission or creation of odor, dust, fumes, smoke, gas, noise, vibration, radiation, or similar substance. (24) Deleted  (25) Tar distillation or tar products manufacture  (26) Animal kennel     25 - 2  (27) Inert Fill Area Where there are no residences or residentially zoned properties located within 1000 feet of the boundary of the property upon which the inert fill area would be located, or where the finished grade of the inert fill area would not be greater than 10 feet in elevation above the highest elevation of any adjoining property. (28)  Petroleum products manufacture or wholesale aboveground storage of           petroleum or its products in quantities not exceeding twelve thousand (12,000) gallons consistent with the minimum separation requirements that appear in table 4.3.2.4 of NFPA 30A. Underground storage tanks shall meet all applicable requirements of Chapter 4 and Chapter 5 of NFPA (29)  Brewery, Distillery, Micro-brewery, Nano Brewery, Pico Brewery, Nano    Distillery and Pico Distillery  24-2 Uses Permitted by Special Exception: (a) The following uses require a Special Exception in the HI (Heavy Industry) Zone. In no case shall any use listed below be allowed within 300 feet of an R-Zone (Residential). (1) Acid manufacture, hydrochloric, nitric, picric, or sulfuric acid  (2) Cement, lime, clay or gypsum, or plaster manufacture  (3) Chlorine or similar noxious gases  (4) Distillation of bones  (5) Drop forge industries manufacturing forgings with power hammers  (6) Explosives, manufacture or storage  (7) Fertilizer manufacture  (8) Garbage, offal, dead animal reduction or dumping  (9) Glue manufacture  (10) Hair manufacture  (11) Deleted  (12) Processing of sauerkraut, vinegar, or yeast  (13) Rendering or refining of fats and oil  (14) Stockyard or feeding pen  (15) Slaughter of animals, not including the killing of fowl (16) Automobile wrecking or junk yards; storage, sorting, collecting, or baling of rags, paper, metal, or other items not usable in their current state. These uses must be enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or board fence not less than six (6) feet in height. (17) Any other use that is noxious or offensive by reason of the emission or creation of odor, dust, fumes, smoke, gas, noise, vibration, radiation, or similar substances, or conditions equal in aggregate amount to that of any use specified. (18) Inert Fill Area - Where there are residences or residentially zoned properties located within 1000 feet of the boundary of the property upon which the inert fill area would be located, or where the finished grade of the inert fill area would be greater than 10 feet in elevation above the highest elevation of any adjoining property. (19) Ammonia or bleaching powder manufacture (20) Atomic energy reactor station (21)  Chemical manufacture   25 - 3 (22) Creosote manufacture or treatment (23) Incinerator (24) Tanning, curing, or storage of raw hides (25)  Petroleum products manufacture or wholesale aboveground storage of  petroleum or its products in quantities exceeding twelve thousand (12,000) gallons consistent with the minimum separation requirements that appear in table 4.3.2.4 of NFPA 30A. Underground storage tanks shall meet all applicable requirements of Chapter 4 and Chapter 5 of NFPA 30.11  24-3 Height: The maximum height of a building or structure in the H-I Zone shall be three hundred (300) feet. 24-4  Setbacks: The setback provisions of the LI Zone shall apply to the HI Zone. 24-5 Prohibited uses: Residential use is prohibited in the HI zone. 24-6 Signs: DELETED. 24-7 Special Exceptions Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 24-2 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended August 2017 – Brewery, Distillery etc…. Amended May 2010, Section 24-2 (11 –deleted and 25 added) Amended May 2010, Section 24-1 (15 – deleted and 28 added) Amended April 2008, Section 24-1 (uses deleted), Section 24-2 (a) (uses reassigned) Amended November 2007 Amended Sept. 2004, Section 24-7  25 - 4   25-4  25 - 5 SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 25  HPA (HISTORIC PRESERVATION AREA) ZONE     ENTIRE SECTION DELETED. 25 - A - 1 SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 25-A  PDR (PLANNED DEVELOPMENT RIVERFRONT) ZONE  25-A-1 Statement of Intent: Recognizing the value of the Savannah Riverfront as an economic, historic, recreational, and visual resource of tremendous value to the citizens of Augusta and surrounding area and further recognizing it as an area of critical and sensitive environmental concern, it is the intent of this section to provide for the orderly and aesthetic development or redevelopment of the lands adjoining the Savannah River by: (a) Creating a special Riverfront Development Review Board comprised of persons with an interest or expertise in the orderly development of this resource. (b) Limiting land uses to those which will provide the best utilization of the benefits afforded by a riverfront location. (c) Insuring that the regulations applicable to the riverfront will be responsive to the dictates of the development economy at a given time. (d) Setting forth sufficient design and development standards and criteria to provide for maximum public benefit from the further development of the riverfront area through a mixture of land uses, the provision and maintenance of public access, elimination or mitigation of negative environmental impact from development, aesthetic controls, and the beneficial coordination of residential, recreational, and commercial utilization of the riverfront lands. 25-A-2 District Boundaries: The PDR (Planned Development Riverfront) Zone shall consist of all of that area bounded by the following:  That area lying within a line beginning at the intersection of the Columbia and Richmond County boundary line and the centerline of the first level of the Augusta Canal; thence in a northeasterly direction along said boundary line to its intersection with the centerline of the Savannah River; thence along the centerline of the Savannah River in a southeasterly direction to a point intersected by a Bearing N 660 50'28"E; thence S 66050'28"W to a point on the south bank of the Savannah River; thence S 66050'28"W a distance of 490.15 feet to a point; thence, N150 31' 32"W a distance of 817 feet, more or less, to a point on the south toe of the Augusta levee; thence along the south toe of the Augusta levee in a westerly direction to its intersection with the northwest right-of-way line of East Boundary Extended; thence along the northwest right-of-way line of East Boundary Extended and East Boundary in a southerly direction to a point located on the southwest corner of the intersection of Reynolds Street and East Boundary; thence in a southerly direction along the northwest right-of-way line of East Boundary a distance of 200.0 feet to a point; thence, in a westerly direction running parallel to Reynolds Street to a point located on the southeast right-of-way line of 9th Street; thence in a southwesterly direction along the southeast right-of-way line of 9th Street to a point located where the southwest right-of-way line of Jones Street Extended intersects with the southeast .right- of-way line of 9th Street; thence in a westerly direction along the southwest right-of-way line of Jones Street Extended to a point located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Jones Street Extended and 9th Street; thence in a southerly direction along the northwest right-of-way line of 9th Street a distance of 100.0 feet to a point; thence in a westerly direction running parallel to Jones Street to its intersection with the centerline  25 - A - 2 of Hawk's Gulley; thence in a southerly direction along the centerline of Hawk's Gulley Extended to the centerline of Broad Street; thence in a westerly direction along the centerline of Broad Street to its intersection with the centerline of the first level of the Augusta Canal; thence along the centerline of the first level of the Augusta Canal in a northwesterly direction to its intersection with the southern right-of-way of the Seaboard System Railroad line; thence, running in a westerly direction along the southern right-of- way of the Seaboard System Railroad line until its intersection with the southeast right- of-way of I-20; thence, in a northeasterly direction along the southeast right-of-way line of I-20 until its intersection with the centerline of the first level of the Augusta Canal; thence, in a northwesterly direction along the centerline of the first level of the Augusta Canal to the point of beginning. 25-A-3 Creation of Riverfront Development Review Board. Augusta- Richmond County Commission shall create a Riverfront Development Review Board which shall consist of ten (10) members, one of whom shall reside in each of the ten districts that together constitute Augusta. (a) Composition. The ten (10) members shall be selected from the following: 1. One (1) member of Augusta-Richmond County Commission;  2. One (1) member of the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission;  3. One (1) member of the Augusta Port Authority;  4. One (1) member of the Executive Committee of Historic Augusta, Inc.  5. One (1) member of Augusta Tomorrow; and 6. Five (5) residents of Augusta-Richmond County. Ex-officio, nonvoting members shall include: 1. Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department 2. Director of the Department of Housing and Neighborhood Development; and  3. Director of the Department of Public Works. (b) Terms of Office. The members of the Review Board shall serve without pay. Initial terms should be five (5) two-year terms and five (5) four-year terms. All reappointment terms thereafter shall be for four years. All members shall be eligible for re-appointment provided that they continue to meet the criteria for their original appointment. (c) Organization. The Review Board shall elect one of its members as Chairman and one as Vice-Chairman. The Chairman shall preside over meetings of the Review Board and shall have the right to vote on matters brought before the Board. A Secretary to the Review Board shall be appointed from the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department and shall take minutes of each meeting. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum. By-laws governing the time and place of meetings and other necessary rules of procedure may be drawn and adopted by the Board. (d) Powers and Duties. The Riverfront Development Review Board shall review all plans for development of properties lying within the boundaries of the PDR (Planned Development Riverfront) Zone. The review shall consist of an evaluation of compliance with the provisions for this section and evaluation of the aesthetic qualities of the proposed development relative to adjacent developments. The Review Board shall make a recommendation in writing to the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission for approval, modification, or disapproval of the  25 - A - 3 proposed development. No site plan shall be approved or building permit issued until such written recommendation has been received and considered by the staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department, provided, however, that such recommendation shall be transmitted no later than 45 days after receipt or the proposed development shall be deemed to be approved by the Review Board. (e) An annual meeting shall be held on the second Tuesday of January each year at 10:00 a.m. at the office of the Planning and Development Department, and other meetings may be held at any time after proper notice on an as-needed basis. 25-A-4 Permitted Uses. The following uses may be permitted in the PDR (Planned Development Riverfront) Zone: (a) Food stores (b) Apparel and accessory stores (c) Water-based transportation and recreational facilities (d) Eating and drinking places (e) Florist and gift shops (f) Newsstands and bookstores (g) Beauty and barber shops (h) Automobile parking lots and parking structures (i) Marine equipment sales and services  (j) Professional offices (k) Governmental facilities and activities (l) Furniture and/or home furnishing stores  (m) Antique shops (n) Drugstores (o) Sporting goods stores (p) Jewelry shops (q) Hobby, toy and game stores (r) Camera and photographic supply shops (s) Tobacco shops (t) Hotels, motels, or other lodging places except boarding houses, manufactured home parks or travel trailer parks (u) Personal or business service establishments (v) Entertainment establishments as follows:  1. Motion picture theaters  2. Performing arts theaters and studios  3. Museums and art galleries  4. Other entertainment, cultural, and educational establishments, upon approval of the Planning Commission (w) Residential uses, all types, provided that the density shall be approved by the Riverfront Development Review Board. (x) The following manufacturing type activities provided they are carried out in conjunction with on-site retail sale of finished products:  1. Bakery  2. Confectionery  3. Leather goods  4. Pottery and related products  5. Glass and glassware  6. Jewelry making  25 - A - 4  7. Metal craft products (y) Uses not specified may be permitted upon approval of the Planning Commission. 25-A-5 Development Standards and Requirements (a) Yard and Setback Requirements. There shall be no minimum lot size, side or rear setback, percentage of lot coverage or lot width, provided, however, that measures are taken to provide reasonable visual and acoustical privacy for dwelling units and that no building or structure shall be constructed so as to encroach within the designated flood way of the Savannah River. (b) Public Access. Application for approval of development in the PDR zone shall include provisions for public access from a publicly- owned or maintained roadway to that portion of the property designated as and defined by the 100-Year Floodplain limit line under an Ordinance entitled "An Ordinance to Prevent Damage From Floods; To Regulate Land Uses in the Flood Plain, and for Other Purposes." 1. Public access areas shall consist of the designated 100 Year Floodplain and one (1) twenty (20) foot access easement for every three hundred (300) feet of river frontage, or portion thereof, to be occupied by the proposed development. 2. The flood way and access easements shall be dedicated to the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, be suitably landscaped, and contain a walkway of sufficient width and surfaced with an all- weather material as approved by the Department of Public Works to facilitate pedestrian movement to and from the public roadway. 3. Said easement shall be permanently maintained by the owner, developer, or an association of owners or residents having responsibility for common areas within the proposed development. 4. All public access easements shall be clearly marked as such with a permanent sign of not less than three (3) square feet in area. (c) Building Design and Site Planning Standards. The following special building design and site planning standards shall apply in the PDR Zone. 1. All development in the PDR zone shall comply with an Ordinance entitled "An Ordinance to Prevent Damage From Floods; To Regulate Land Uses in the Flood Plain, and For Other Purposes" and approval of development plans under the provisions of this section shall not constitute approval under other applicable codes and ordinances. 2. No fencing along the exterior property lines of any development in the PDR zone shall be permitted unless the proposed fence is integrated completely with the design of the buildings, i.e. similar in materials, design, and detailing. Developers are required to fence or screen off-street parking and loading areas from view from public roadways utilizing a four (4) foot fence, screen, or landscaped earthen berm. 3. All construction in a PDR zone shall be of the following materials: brick, stucco, poured-in-place architectural concrete, exposed aggregate pre cast panels, and wood siding where appropriate and permitted by codes. Unacceptable construction materials include  25 - A - 5 metal siding, concrete block, and high maintenance finishes such as paint on concrete block. Exceptions to the provisions of this subsection may be granted for additions or modifications to existing buildings, or for construction on the same parcel and in close proximity to existing buildings. Exceptions may be granted only in the case of hardship where it is determined that the aesthetics of the surrounding area would not be adversely affected. 4. All mechanical equipment and service areas shall be screened from view from adjacent roads and pedestrian ways, other structures, and the Levee by structures or devices integral to the architecture of the building. Wherever practicable, all utility systems in the development shall be underground. 5. Preservation of existing trees on-site is required. Applications for approval of development plans in the PDR Zone shall show the location and type of all existing trees having a diameter measurement of ten (10) inches measured at a height of four (4) feet above ground level and shall indicate which of these trees are to be retained. Removal of trees of that size or larger is prohibited except where necessary to allow construction of buildings; needed for street rights-of-way, walkways, and ancillary structures such as patios; the tree is diseased, injured, or otherwise may pose an unsafe visibility or sight distance; or unduly restricts the economic use of the property. Where it is necessary to remove existing trees, the developer is required to replace them with planting elsewhere on-site. 6. All development proposed for the PDR zone will be reviewed for its impact on or utilization of historic and potentially historic structures. Developers are encouraged to coordinate adaptive renovation and use of existing structures with the appropriate local agencies or organizations having an interest in historic preservation. 25-A-6 Application Requirements: (a) An application for approval of development plans in the PDR Zone shall be made to the Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. Eleven copies of the plans shall be provided to allow transmittal to the members of the Riverfront Development Review Board at least seven (7) days prior to the date of the Review Board meeting. Upon receipt of an application, the Executive Director shall cause the members of the Review Board to be notified of the date, time, and place of the meeting and shall transmit copies of the proposed development plans to the membership. (b) An application for review of the development plans shall include: 1. A boundary and topographic plat of the land to be included in the entire development showing all rights-of-way and easements affecting the property. 2. A plat showing any new building lots and their boundaries along with the square footage contained in each and the location and rights-of-way of proposed streets and public pedestrian ways. 25 - A - 6 3. The location of existing and proposed buildings and the number of stories contained in each. 4. The location and elevation of the water supply, sanitary, and storm drainage systems. 5. The location and type of all common areas along with a statement of the method to be used to insure the continued maintenance of such areas. 6. The location of all curb cuts, driving lanes, and parking areas. 7. The location and height of all walls, fences, and screen plantings. 8. A statement of proposed uses on a building by building basis and, where applicable, on a floor by floor basis. 9. Architectural drawings indicating the proposed appearance of each elevation and a general statement regarding exterior colors and materials. 10. The proposed location and character of signs and exterior lighting, service areas and doors, and loading facilities. 11. A landscaping plan showing the location, size, and type of all plant materials whether existing or proposed. 12. For residential developments, a tabulation of the total area, number of dwelling units, off-street parking spaces and overall density per acre. (c) Upon completion of its review, the Riverfront Development Review Board shall transmit its findings along with recommendations for modifications, if any, to the Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department who shall process the proposed development plans in accordance with the Zoning Ordinance and the Land Subdivision Regulations for Augusta Commission, if applicable. (d) Any change in the approved development plan which affects the intent and character of the development, the density or land use pattern, the location or dimensions of streets or other access ways, or similar changes shall be reviewed in the same manner as set forth above. Amended Sept. 2012 – add 25-A-3(e)  25 - B - 1 SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS SECTION 25-B SCA (SPECIAL SIGN CONTROL AREA) DISTRICT      ENTIRE SECTION DELETED  25 - C - 1 SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 25-C  RIVER WATCH PARKWAY      ENTIRE SECTION DELETED  25 - D - 1 SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS SECTION 25 - D SAVANNAH RIVER CORRIDOR PROTECTION DISTRICT 25-D-1 Statement of Intent The intent of the regulations with this Zoning District is to limit the use of the Savannah River Corridor, in conjunction with other government entities along the Savannah River Corridor, in order to:  (a) Assure that the Savannah River in the City of Augusta will not become polluted and unsuitable as a source for potable water; (b) Protect the river corridor by establishing a natural vegetative buffer area bordering the river; (c) Preserve those qualities that make the river corridor suitable as a habitat for wildlife; (d) Help control erosion and to absorb flood waters; and (e) Protect and safeguard the health and welfare of all the citizens of the City of Augusta by providing protection of the section of the river that is or may be used as a source of drinking water. 25-D-2 Description of District The limits of the Savannah River Corridor Protection (SRCP) District are hereby defined to be all areas within 100 feet horizontally of the river, measured from the river bank. This area shall remain in an undisturbed vegetative buffer. The 100-foot buffer is measured from the uppermost part of the river bank, usually marked by a break in slope. Although not within the buffer area, the area between the top of the river bank and the water's edge shall be included in the SRCP district. Because these protective measures allow some latitude with land uses, and because the District is not intended to prescribe a specific land use but rather to define a range of acceptable land uses, the Savannah River Corridor Protection District is designed as an overlay district. Within the range of land uses which can be located within the District, this Section establishes performance standards which apply to development within the District. The regulations of the underlying zoning district shall be maintained and not affected, except in the event of conflict or discrepancy between the SRCP District and the underlying district. In that case, the more stringent requirements shall be observed. 25-D-3 Establishment and Maintenance of Natural Buffer Except as permitted under this section, all construction of buildings or structures is prohibited within the SCRP District, and the existing natural vegetative buffer within 100 feet of the river bank shall remain undisturbed. 25-D-4 Permitted Uses and Conditions The following uses are permitted, subject to certain conditions, within the one hundred-foot (100') buffer of the SRCP District. Any permitted use must also comply with the applicable regulations of the underlying zoning classification. (a) Single-family dwellings, including the usual accessory structures and appurtenances, are subject to the following conditions:  25 - D - 2 1. The dwelling shall be located on a tract of land containing at least two acres and meeting all other zoning regulations. 2. There shall be only one such dwelling on each two-acre or larger tract of land. 3. A septic tank or tanks serving such a dwelling may be located within the buffer area; however, septic tank drain fields shall not be located within the buffer area. (b) Industrial and commercial land uses existing prior to the adoption of the Savannah River Corridor Protection District, provided that:  1. Industrial and commercial uses shall not impair the drinking quality of the  river water as defined by the Federal Clean Water Act, as amended. 2. Industrial and commercial activity within the SRCP district shall meet all applicable State and Federal environmental rules and regulations. 3. Septic tanks and septic tank drain fields serving industrial and commercial uses are prohibited within the buffer area. (c) The construction of road crossings and utility crossings, provided that the construction of said crossings shall meet all requirements of the Augusta- Richmond County Soil and Sediment Control Ordinance. (d) Agricultural production and management, subject to the following conditions: 1. Agricultural activity shall be consistent with best management practices established by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission; 2. Agricultural activity shall not impair the water quality of the river water as defined by the Georgia Clean Water Act; 3. Agricultural activity shall be consistent with all applicable State and Federal environmental regulations, and all regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture. (e) Timber production and harvesting, subject to the following conditions: 1. Forestry activity shall be consistent with best management practices established by the Georgia Forestry Commission. 2. Forestry activity shall not impair the drinking water quality of the river water as defined by the Georgia Clean Water Act. (f) Wildlife and fisheries management activities consistent with the purpose of O.C.G.A.12-2-8. (g) Wastewater treatment facilities. (h) Natural water quality treatment or purification facilities. (i) Recreational uses consistent either with the maintenance of a natural vegetative buffer or with river-dependent recreation. For example, paths, walkways, boat ramps would be consistent with this criteria, but parking lots and hard-surface tennis court would not. (j) Other uses as permitted by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources or under Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act. 25-D-5 Prohibited Uses The following uses are prohibited within the one hundred-foot (100') buffer of the SRCP District. (a) Handling areas for the receiving and storage of hazardous wastes; (b) Disposal facilities for hazardous or solid wastes; and (c) All construction activities within the buffer area, except as provided for in Section 25-D-6 (Exempt Uses. 25 - D - 3 25-D-6 Exempt Uses The following uses are exempt from the one hundred-foot (100') buffer requirements of the SRCP District: (a) Land uses existing prior to the adoption of the Savannah River Corridor Protection District; (b) Mining activities, if permitted by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources; and (c) Utilities, if such utilities cannot feasibly be located outside the buffer area, as determined by the local government, provided that: 1. The utilities shall be located as far from the river bank as reasonably possible; 2. Installation and maintenance of the utilities shall be such as to protect the integrity of the buffer area to the extent reasonably possible; 3. The natural vegetative buffer shall be restored as quickly as possible following any construction utility construction; and  4. Utilities shall not impair the drinking quality of the river water. 25 - E - 1 SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS SECTION 25 -E OVERLAY DISTRICTS  25-E-1 STATEMENT OF INTENT: Overlay zoning is an established method of creating special zoning districts placed over existing base zoning. The purpose of overlay zoning is to provide additional protection and/or guidance for specific areas through regulations and/or incentives that are applied in addition to the base zoning requirements. Overlay districts are tools for implementing plans by protecting critical areas for groundwater recharge, floodplains, or prime farmland. They could also be used to protect the character of neighborhoods, commercial districts, and corridors. They could guide development more carefully than base zoning by identifying future urban zones and mixed use areas, and they could protect critical impact zones such as airports from encroachment. 25-E-2 METHOD OF DESIGNATION: Areas which conform to the intent expressed in 25-1 and the criteria in Section 25-4 may be considered for designation as Overlay Districts. Such designations shall be done on an individual basis by amending the text of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance and the maps attached thereto. Designations shall be made as additions to this Section, setting forth the name and geographic description of the overlay district and the additional special regulations and incentives attached thereto. Designation of overlay districts shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 35 of this Ordinance. 25-E-3 APPLICATION: The following are empowered to apply for designation of an Overlay district: The Augusta Commission or any department thereof; the owners of at least 10 contiguous properties, or the owners of 10 percent of the total number of properties within a proposed district. The application for designation of an overlay zone shall be accompanied by all supporting documentation including the proposed geographical boundaries for the proposed area, the complete text of the proposed additional requirements and/or incentives, a thorough explanation and justification for the proposed designation, and a fee set by the City of Augusta that is sufficient to cover the cost of staff time, public notification, and other expenses. Applications from the Augusta Commission or departments thereof shall not be required payment of fee. When an application is received by the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department, a determination shall be made regarding its completeness. If incomplete, it shall be returned to the applicant. If deemed complete then within 30 days of receipt, written notice of the application shall be sent by the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department by regular mail to the owners of all properties located within the proposed district, as shown on the current records of the Tax Assessor’s Office. The notice shall set forth the purpose of the district, the geographic limits, the name(s) of the applicants, and the date and time for a public hearing to be held for the purpose of receiving input regarding the proposed Overlay District. At the time that such notice is given, the application shall be deemed accepted, and the procedures set forth in Section 35 of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance shall be followed. 25-E-4 CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION – An application for designation of an overlay district shall conform to the following criteria in order to be considered by the Augusta Commission, whether initiated by the City or by another party:  25 - E - 2  a) The area must be of contiguous geography and it must be characterized by some significant common element, be it environmental sensitivity, period of development, neighborhood character, future development potential, or something similar; and  b) The full text of the proposed additional requirements for the proposed overlay district must be provided at the time of the application for designation. Such additional requirements must be reasonable to facilitate the intent and purpose of the designation as well as the Goals, Objectives, Intent and Purpose of the Comprehensive Plan and other pertinent plans adopted by the City of Augusta. ; and  c) The benefits of the proposed additional regulations to the public health, safety, and welfare shall be sufficiently documented to clearly indicate that they are more significant than the sum of potential effects of diminished property values and other detrimental impacts of the designation. 25-E-5 ADMINISTRATION AND APPEALS: The staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall administer the provisions of this section. Within an approved Overlay District any application for approval of a site plan, subdivision plat, special exception, variance, rezoning, building permit or business license shall be reviewed by staff for conformance with the additional requirements of the applicable overlay zone. If deemed inconsistent with the requirements of this section, then such application shall be rejected. The applicant may appeal such staff decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) provided such appeal is heard within 90 days of the staff decision. The applicant in such situations is responsible for filing an application with the BZA and paying such fees as provided for in this Ordinance or in the bylaws of the BZA. 25-E-6 PRE-EXISTING OVERLAY ZONES: Anything provided for in the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance that might be construed as an Overlay District which pre-dates the adoption of this section shall not be subject to the regulations set forth in this section. 25-E-7 OVERLAY DISTRICT “W4”: This is an Overlay District to be known as “W4” which is located on the western boundary of the Laney Walker/Bethlehem Neighborhood. It is described as beginning at the intersection of R. A. Dent Boulevard and Holley Street; thence, south on Holley Street to the intersection of the rear property lines extended of properties fronting Wrightsboro Road; thence, east on those property lines to their extended intersection with Augusta Avenue; thence; south on Augusta Avenue to Poplar Street; thence, west on Poplar Street to Woodson Street; thence north on Woodson Street to Roulette Lane; thence, west on Roulette Lane to Floyd Street; thence, south on Floyd Street to Poplar Street; thence, west on Poplar Street to Fifteenth Street; thence, north on Fifteenth Street to Wrightsboro Road; thence, north on Wrightsboro Road to R. A. Dent Boulevard; thence, north on R. A. Dent Boulevard to the point of beginning. W-4 is an area targeted for redevelopment by the City and the purpose of this Overlay is to promote mixed uses while maintaining the primarily residential character. Land uses established after the effective date of this amendment shall be limited to the following:  a) residential, including single family and low density multi-family, provided the density shall be approved by the Planning Commission,   25 - E - 3 b) professional offices, including former residences that can be converted into   professional office space, c) institutional uses, including schools, churches, and other religious institutions, d) neighborhood retail, including, apparel and accessory stores, e) florist and gift shops, f) newsstands and bookstores, g) beauty and barber shops, h) furniture and/or home furnishing stores, i) antique shops, j) drug stores and pharmacies, k) sporting goods stores, l) hobby, toy and game stores, m) camera and photographic supply shops, n) tobacco shops, o) office supplies/print shops, p) sandwich shops, coffee shops, and sit-down eating establishments, q) dry cleaners, grocery stores, r) youth recreational facilities ( i.e. YMCA, skating rinks), s) movie theaters. *Permitted uses that are not specified in the above Neighborhood Retail list must be approved by the Planning Commission            Amended by adding 25-E-7 February 2012 Adopted July 2011  25 - F - 1 PROFESSIONAL OFFICE PARK DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  SECTION 25-F  POPD (PROFESSIONAL OFFICE PARK DISTRICT) ZONE  25-F-1 Statement of Intent: The intent of this section is to provide for development of professional office buildings and parks, and certain service and retail uses which are compatible with, and supportive of, professional office buildings and parks. 25-F-2 Permitted Uses: The following land uses are permitted in a POPD (Professional Office Park District) Zone, subject to staff approval of the plan:  a) Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services. b) Advertising. c) Adult day-care. d) Child day-care services, including outdoor play areas e) Computer programming, data processing and other computer related services (other than sales, leasing or rental activities, or repairs). f) Consulting services, unclassified. g) Consumer credit reporting agencies, collection agencies, etc. h) Dental laboratories. i) Depository institutions. j) Engineering, architectural and surveying services. k) Health services, offices and clinics. l) Holding and other investment offices. m) Insurance agents, brokers and services. n) Legal services. o) Libraries. p) Mailing, reproduction, commercial art and photography and q) Stenographic services. r) Management and public relations services. s) Non-depository credit institutions. t) Office buildings of all types. u) Open Space, Park and recreation facilities, public or private (noncommercial). v) Passenger transportation arrangement (travel agent). w) Personnel supply services. x) Radio and TV broadcasting stations. y) Real estate services. z) Religious organizations. aa) Security and commodity brokers, dealers, exchanges and services. bb) Tax return preparation services. cc) Telephone, telegraph and other message communication services. dd) Accessory uses, subject to the limitations in Section 25-F-2 and Section 25-F-4 ee) Temporary sales and events subject to the provisions of Section (Section of City Code regulating such an event) ff) Special uses listed in the Use Matrix may be permitted, and are subject to the issuance of a special use permit pursuant to the provisions of the applicable section of the city code. 25 - F - 2 25-F-3 Size of Tract: The minimum size of any tract to be zoned and developed in a Professional Office Building District shall be twenty-five (25) acres and the tract shall have permanent paved access to a paved public road or a road to be paved and dedicated to the public. 25-F-4 Area Limitations:  a) Office Uses: A maximum of seventy-five (75%) percent of the total area of the proposed development may be devoted to office uses. b) Accessory Uses: A maximum of five percent (5%) of the remaining area of the tract may be devoted to the permitted accessory uses listed in Section 25-F-2. It shall exclude portions of the tract devoted to usable open space and recreational uses. c) Open Space, Park and Recreation Facilities, Public or Private (noncommercial): A minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the area of the tract shall be devoted to noncommercial open space, and recreation facilities. The area reserved for recreational and/or open space uses shall be held in common for the enjoyment of the occupants of the office development and accessory uses. Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area. 25-F-5 Area:  a) The minimum size of any tract to be zoned and developed in a Professional Office Park District shall be twenty-five (25) acres. 25-F-6 Height:  a) The maximum height of a building shall not exceed twelve (12) stories or one hundred forty-four (144) feet from the finished grade. , 25-F-7 Setbacks - Buildings: a) Front Setback: There shall be a front yard setback in a POPD zone of not less than one hundred (100) feet from any structure to an adjoining street right-of-way. b) Side and Rear Setbacks: There shall be a side and rear yard setbacks in a POPD zone of not less than twenty (20) feet from any structure to an adjoining property line zoned or used for agricultural or residential use. Structures over twenty (20) feet in height shall be set back an additional one (1) foot for every two (2) feet in height over twenty (20) feet. There shall be a side and rear yard setbacks in a POPD zone of not less than ten (10) feet from any structure to an adjoining property zoned or used for office, commercial or industrial uses. 25-F-8 Setbacks - Parking:   25 - F - 3 a) There shall be a setback in a POPD zone of not less than forty (40) feet from any parking space to an adjoining street right-of-way. b) There shall be a setback in a POPD zone of not less than fifty (50) feet from any parking space to an adjoining property zoned or used for agricultural or residential use. c) Where a POPD zone adjoins property zoned or used for office, commercial or industrial use, the setback for any parking space shall be the same as required by the zoning of the office, commercial or industrial use. 25-F-9 Development and Performance Standards: a) Building Orientation: All buildings shall be oriented toward street frontage unless an exception is granted to improve the site design or to facilitate the use of solar power. b) Parking: Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 4 of this Ordinance. c) Streets: Internal streets intended to be dedicated to Augusta, Georgia, as well as any internal private streets shall conform to the requirements of the Street and Road Design Technical Manual. d) Signage: Signage shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 28-B of this ordinance. e) Landscaping and Buffers: Natural landscaping and buffers shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of the Augusta Tree Ordinance and Tree Ordinance Illustrated Guide (Chapter 8-4-1 thru 8-4-17 of the Augusta, Georgia Code). f) Outdoor Displays and Equipment: No merchandise shall be stored or displayed outside buildings, and no equipment or vehicles, except for passenger vehicles, shall be stored outside buildings. g) Noise: Noise levels should not exceed those specified in Chapter 3-6-1 thru 3-6-4 of the Augusta, Georgia Code. h) Merchandise Sales: Sale of merchandise from a vehicle or temporary structure is prohibited, except as provided for by a temporary sales and events permit. 25-F-10 Traffic Impact Analysis: An application for approval of a project in a POPD (Professional Office Park District) Zone shall include a traffic impact analysis to determine whether the roadway network in the area of the proposed development will be able to handle the existing through traffic, plus the additional traffic that the development will generate. a) General Requirements of Traffic Impact Analysis   25 - F - 4 1. The analysis shall be prepared by a Professional Engineer registered with the State of Georgia with expertise in traffic engineering. 2. Prior to completing the Traffic Impact Analysis, the applicant and the Professional Engineer shall hold a scoping meeting with the Planning and Development Director and the City Traffic Engineer to determine the following parameters for the analysis: Trip generation assumptions; Growth Rate for future year traffic estimation; Trip distribution; Pass-by traffic and/or internal capture; Non-traditional peak hour studies, if required; Whether or not truck or heavy vehicle distributions need to be considered separately; Any other approved development applications within the study area; Funded capital improvement projects that will increase the capacity of the roadways in question; Site construction phasing; and If a signal warrant analysis for high volume un- signalized intersections is needed. 3. The City will prepare a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that outlines the agreements made during the scoping meeting. The applicant shall return the signed MOU to the Planning and Development Director. The Professional Engineer cannot begin work on the analysis until both the City and the applicant have signed the MOU. b) Traffic Analysis Study Area Boundary  1. The analysis study area shall at a minimum include any roadways and intersections within one-half mile of the development application proposal. 2. The study area may be modified if the Planning and Development Director:   Determines a larger study area or additional roadways or intersections for analysis are required due to the size or characteristics of the development application proposal; or  Waives the need to study roadways or intersections that are determined not to be significantly affected by the development application proposal, as long as all key intersections within the study area are studied. c) Traffic Analysis Period: The analysis shall examine future traffic conditions one year after the development application proposal is scheduled to be completed (build +1). d) Traffic Analysis Software: The study shall be performed using the operational analysis of the latest Highway Capacity Manual and traffic analysis software approved by the city of Augusta. Other software packages, such as Synchro, are preferred for coordinated signal systems, and may be required for supplemental analysis. 25 - F - 5   25-F-11 Application Procedures:  a) An application for rezoning of property to POPD (Professional Office Park District) shall be accompanied by a preliminary development plan for the subject property. b) The preliminary development plan shall include, at a minimum: 1. A boundary and topographic plat of the land showing all rights-of-way and easements affecting the property. 2. A plat showing the proposed location of buildings, including the number of stories and square footage contained in each, the location of areas reserved for open space, park and recreation facilities and the location of all curb cuts, driving lanes, parking areas and pedestrian ways. 3. A statement of proposed uses on a building by building basis. 4. Elevation drawing of a typical building 5. The traffic impact analysis as required by Section 25-F-10 of this ordinance. 6. A general landscaping plan for the entire site. 7. A signage plan for the entire site. 8. If applicable, a project phasing plan as required by Section 25-F-12 of this ordinance. c) Assuming the rezoning is approved by the Augusta Commission, the applicant will then follow the procedures and requirements of the Augusta Site Plan Regulations in obtaining final approval of the site plan for the property. d) The approved final plat and approved site plan are binding and shall be a restriction on development which runs with the land. Any unauthorized deviation therefrom shall be punishable and enforceable as a violation of this section. 25-F-12 Project Phasing: In the event that a project will be completed in phases, the following shall apply:  a) The applicant shall submit a phasing plan as part of the application. b) Each phase shall be designed to “stand alone” so that if subsequent phases are not constructed, the completed portion of the project constitutes a coherent development logically interconnected with surrounding areas. c) Certain project elements, such as open space and recreational amenities, must be provided for each phase of development in rough proportion to the size of the particular phase within the whole project. In certain circumstances, this may also require that infrastructure improvements shown within a later phase of the project be constructed within an earlier phase, or appropriate securities provided to ensure that construction occurs even if the later phase never takes place. 25 - F - 6   25-F-13 Time Limit and Extensions: The following time limits apply to projects located in a POPD zone:  a) Approval of a site plan shall be valid for five years from the date approved. Construction on any and all phases must be complete for final approval within five years of the date of site plan approval. b) Approval may be extended by resolution of the Augusta Commission for a maximum of two (2) additional years; provided, that: 1. A written request for extension has been received at least 30 days prior to the date of expiration; and 2. The applicant demonstrates that extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances have precluded compliance with the five-year time limit. 25-F-14 Enforcement: If the applicant does not begin, and substantially complete the approved project, or any phase of the project, within the established time limits, the Planning and Development Director shall review the project and may recommend to the Augusta Commission that:  a) The time for its completion be extended, upon a showing that the project can be completed within six months, and that the applicant has posted bond or other acceptable securities to ensure completion of any unfinished work; or b) That the approval of the project be revoked. District Established May 2014   25- G - 1  SECTION 25-G MXUD (MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT) ZONE   25-G-1 Statement of Intent: The intent of this section is to provide for development of mixed- use developments that spur revitalization, promotes efficient use of land and infrastructure, guides development toward established areas and encourage high quality design that is compatible with the surrounding area. 25-G-2 Permitted Uses: The following land uses are permitted in a Mixed Use Development District Zone (MXUD), subject to staff approval a) residential, including single family and low density multi-family, provided the density shall be approved by the Planning Commission b) professional offices, including former residences that can be converted into professional office space c) residential, including single family and low density multi-family, provided the density shall be approved by the Planning Commission d) professional offices, including former residences that can be converted into professional office space e) institutional uses, including schools, churches, and other religious institutions, f) neighborhood retail, including, apparel and accessory stores g) florist and gift shops h) newsstands and bookstores i) beauty and barber shops j) furniture and/or home furnishing stores k) antique shops l) drug stores and pharmacies m) sporting goods stores n) hobby, toy and game stores o) tobacco shops p) office supplies/print shops q) sandwich shops, coffee shops, and sit-down eating establishments r) dry cleaners, grocery stores s) recreation facilities and open space *Uses that are not in the above list must be approved by the Planning Commission  25-G-3 Eligible Applicants: Eligible applicants for designation of an MXUD include the following: c) The owner of all the property involved, if under one ownership; or  d) An application filed jointly by all owners having title to all the property in the area proposed for the planned unit development project, if there be more than one owner; or  e) A person having an interest in the property to be included in the planned unit development. 25- G - 2  f) The planned unit development application shall be in the name or names of the recorded owner or owners of property included in the development. g) The application may be initially filed by holder(s) of an equitable interest in or option on such property; provided, that written permission from the property owner(s) is included with the application. In such cases, the applicant must evidence a full ownership interest in the land (either legal title or the execution of a land sales agreement) before final approval of the applicant’s plan. 25-G-4 Size of Tract: The minimum size of any tract to be zoned and developed in a MXUD shall be twenty (20) acres and the tract shall have permanent paved access to a paved public road or a road to be paved and dedicated to the public. 25-G-5 Area Limitations: Specific uses should be identified at the time of application for rezoning a) Housing: A maximum of forty percent (40%) of the total acreage of the proposed development may be used for housing. b) Office and Retail Uses: A maximum of fifteen percent (15%) of the proposed development may be used for permitted office and retail uses. c) Institutional Uses: A maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the proposed development may be used for permitted office and retail uses. d) Open Space / Recreation: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the overall acreage of the tract shall be dedicated to open space and recreation. A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the overall acreage shall be dedicated to usable open space and recreation. Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area. 25-G-6 Height: a) The maximum height of a building shall not exceed five (5) stories or ninety (90) feet from the finished grade. 25-G-7 Setbacks - Buildings: d) Front Setback: There shall be a front yard setback in a MUXD zone of not less than forty (40) feet from any structure to an adjoining street right-of-way. The front yard setback may be reduced in an urban location. e) Side and Rear Setbacks: There shall be side and rear yard setbacks in a MUXD zone of not less than fifty (50) feet from any structure to an adjoining property line zoned or used for agricultural or residential use. Structures over fifty (50) feet in height shall be set back an additional one (1) foot for every two (2) feet in height over fifty (50) feet. f) There shall be a side and rear yard setbacks in a MUXD zone of not less than twenty-five (25) feet from any structure to an adjoining property zoned or used for office, commercial or industrial uses. 25- G - 3  25-G-8 Setbacks - Parking: c) There shall be a setback in a MXUD zone of not less than twenty (20) feet from any parking space to an adjoining street right-of-way. d) There shall be a setback in a MXUD zone of not less than twenty(20) feet from any parking space to an adjoining property zoned or used for agricultural or residential use. e) Where a MXUD zone adjoins property zoned or used for office, commercial or industrial use, the setback for any parking space shall be the same as required by the zoning of the adjoining zone. 25-G-9 Development and Performance Standards: f) Building Orientation: All buildings shall be oriented toward street frontage unless an exception is granted to improve the site design or to facilitate the use of solar power. g) Parking: Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 4 of this Ordinance. The number of required off- street parking spaces may be reduced where shared parking arrangements can be demonstrated, and up to ten percent (10%) of the required spaces can be compact car spaces. Bicycle parking must be provided at a rate of one bike space for every ten vehicle parking spaces. Bicycle parking racks or lots must meet the guidelines recommended by the Association of Pedestrian and Bicycle Professionals. h) Streets: Internal streets intended to be dedicated to Augusta, Georgia, as well as any internal private streets shall conform to the requirements of the Street and Road Design Technical Manual. i) Signage: Signage shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 28-B of this ordinance. j) Landscaping and Buffers: Natural landscaping and buffers shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of the Augusta Tree Ordinance and Tree Ordinance Illustrated Guide (Chapter 8-4-1 thru 8-4-17 of the Augusta, Georgia Code). k) Indoor / Outdoor Operations: All permitted uses in the MXUD zone must be conducted within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise expressly authorized. This requirement does not apply to off-street parking or loading areas, automated teller machines or outdoor seating areas. l) Noise: Noise levels should not exceed those specified in Chapter 3-6-1 thru 3-6-4 of the Augusta, Georgia Code. m) Merchandise Sales: Sale of merchandise from a vehicle or temporary structure is prohibited, except as provided for by a temporary sales and events permit. 25-G-10 Project Phasing: In the event that a project will be completed in phases, the following shall apply: a) The applicant shall submit a phasing plan as part of the application. 25- G - 4  b) Each phase shall be designed to “stand alone” so that if subsequent phases are not constructed, the completed portion of the project constitutes a coherent development logically interconnected with surrounding areas. c) Certain project elements, such as open space and recreational amenities, must be provided   for each phase of development in rough proportion to the size of the particular phase   within the whole project. In certain circumstances, this may also require that   infrastructure improvements shown within a later phase of the project be constructed   within an earlier phase, or appropriate securities provided to ensure that construction   occurs even if the later phase never takes place. d) The approved final plat and approved MXUD site plan are binding and shall be a restriction on development which runs with the land. Any unauthorized deviation therefrom shall be punishable and enforceable as a violation of this title. 25-G-11 Traffic Impact Analysis: An application for approval of a MXUD shall include a traffic impact analysis to determine whether the roadway network in the area of the proposed development will be able to handle the existing through traffic, plus the additional traffic that the development will generate. a) General Requirements of Traffic Impact Analysis:  1. The analysis shall be prepared by a Professional Engineer registered with the State of Georgia with expertise in traffic engineering. 2. Prior to completing the Traffic Impact Analysis, the applicant and the Professional Engineer shall hold a scoping meeting with the Planning and Development Director and the City Traffic Engineer to determine the following parameters for the analysis: Trip generation assumptions; Growth Rate for future year traffic estimation; Trip distribution; Pass-by traffic and/or internal capture; Non-traditional peak hour studies, if required; Whether or not truck or heavy vehicle distributions need to be considered separately; Any other approved development applications within the study area; Funded capital improvement projects that will increase the capacity of the roadways in question; Site construction phasing; and If a signal warrant analysis for high volume un- signalized intersections is needed. 3. The City will prepare a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that outlines the agreements made during the scoping meeting. The applicant shall return the signed MOU to the Planning and Development Director. The Professional Engineer cannot begin work on the analysis until both the City and the applicant have signed the MOU. b) Traffic Analysis Study Area Boundary   25- G - 5  1. The analysis study area shall at a minimum include any roadways and intersections within one-half mile of the development application proposal. 2. The study area may be modified if the Planning and Development Director:   Determines a larger study area or additional roadways or intersections for analysis are required due to the size or characteristics of the development application proposal; or  Waives the need to study roadways or intersections that are determined not to be significantly affected by the development application proposal, as long as all key intersections within the study area are studied. c) Traffic Analysis Period: The analysis shall examine future traffic conditions one year after the development application proposal is scheduled to be completed (build +1). d) Traffic Analysis Software: The study shall be performed using the operational analysis of the latest Highway Capacity Manual and traffic analysis software approved by the City of Augusta. Other software Packages, such as Synchro, are preferred for coordinated signal systems and may be required for supplemental analysis. 25-G-12 Time Limit and Extensions: The following time limits apply to approved PUD and MXUD projects: a) The MXUD approval, and the approval of any associated preliminary plat or other land division approval, shall be valid for five years from the date approved by the Augusta Commission. Construction on any and all phases must be complete for final MXUD approval within five years of the preliminary MXUD approval;  b) A MXUD and any associated preliminary plat or other land division, may be extended by resolution of the Augusta Commission for a maximum of two (2) years; provided, that:  1. A written request for extension has been received at least 30 days prior to the   date of expiration; and  2. The applicant demonstrates that extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances have precluded compliance with the five-year time limit. 25-G-13 Enforcement: If the applicant does not begin, and substantially complete the planned unit development, or any phase of the planned unit development, within the established time limits, the Planning and Development Director shall review the planned unit development and may recommend to the Augusta Commission that:  a) The time for its completion be extended, upon a showing that the project can be completed within six months, and that the applicant has posted bond or other acceptable securities to ensure completion of any unfinished work; or  b) That the approval of the planned unit development be revoked   25- G - 6  Items for Analysis Useful Software2  Multiple Intersections Synchro  Isolated Signalized Intersections Synchro  Isolated Unsignalized Intersections Synchro, HCS  Simulation SimTraffic, VISSIM, CORSIM  Roundabouts SIDRA, VISSIM  Roadway Segment HCS  Merge, Diverge, and Weave HCS  Use of alternate analysis software must be approved by the City of Augusta; however the above software is not specifically endorsed by the City. District Established November 2014  26 - 1 SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  SECTION 26  SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS 26-1 The following Special Exceptions may be permitted in any Zone where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare and are in harmony with the various elements or objectives of the Master Plan/Planning Document in effect. All applications for a Special Exception under this subsection shall be accompanied by a preliminary development plan that shows the location of all buildings associated with the proposed use and the number of stories contained in each building. The preliminary development plan must also show the location of all curb cuts, driving lanes, parking areas, and the location of all walls, fences and screen plantings that exist or are planned. (a) Church, synagogue, or other place of worship, or their related activities including, but not limited to, the care for fewer than nineteen (19) children under the age of eighteen (18) for not more than four (4) hours per day, subject to the following criteria:  (1) A tract upon which a church is to be established shall have at least one hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector street or an arterial street and be at least one-half acre in area. (2) Structures shall be set back at least twenty-five (25) feet from any property line separating the subject property from residentially zoned or developed properties. (3) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. (4) DELETED. (5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be submitted to the Planning Commission before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed church are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties. (b) Private schools subject to the following criteria: (1) A tract upon which a private school is to be established shall have at least one-hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector street or an arterial street. (2) A circular drive or similar layout that discourages backing and encourages through movement of traffic shall be provided for off-street loading and unloading, and the parking layout shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. (3) A private school shall be screened from contiguous residentially zoned or developed properties by a wall, solid fence, or vegetative buffer at least six (6) feet in height. (4) Signage shall comply with the SCA requirements for institutional uses. (5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have  26 - 2 been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed school are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties. (c) Utility substation subject to the following criteria: (1) Use of the property as a substation shall be essential for service to the area in which the substation is to be located. (2) A tract upon which a utility substation is to be erected shall have frontage on a collector or arterial street. (3) No personnel shall be assigned to the site; the utility shall be unmanned. (4) Outside storage of vehicles, equipment, and supplies on the premises shall not be permitted. (5) If the base zoning is agricultural, residential, or professional, then any building or structure which exceeds 25 feet in height when measured from ground elevation shall be set back not less than fifty (50) feet from any property line. (6) DELETED. (7) A substation shall be screened from contiguous residentially zoned or developed properties by a wall, solid fence, or vegetative buffer at least six (6) feet in height. (8) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed utility substation are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties. (d) Nursing home subject to the following criteria: (1) A tract upon which a nursing home is to be established shall have at least one hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector or an arterial street. (2) DELETED. (3) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. (4) Nursing homes shall not be located in areas where the health, safety, and welfare of the residents would be compromised. Examples of such areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites where environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law enforcement records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. (5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed nursing home are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties. (e) Adult day care facility subject to the following criteria: (1) A tract upon which an adult day care facility is to be established shall have at least one hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector or an arterial street. (2) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. 26 - 3 (3) An adult day care facility may not be established within twelve hundred (1200) feet of a lawfully existing family day care home, family personal care home, transition housing, or another adult day care facility located in A, R or P zones. (4) Adult day care facilities shall not be located in areas where the health, safety, and welfare of the residents would be compromised. Examples of such areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites where environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law enforcement records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. (5) DELETED. (6) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed adult day care facility are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties. (f) Family day care home subject to the following criteria: (1) A family day care home may not be established within twelve hundred (1200) feet of a lawfully existing family personal care home, transition housing, adult day care facility, or another family day care home located in A, R or P zones. (2) There shall be adequate indoor and outdoor play areas to meet Georgia DHR standards. Outdoor play areas shall be designed for daytime use only with no special illumination, and they shall be screened from contiguous residential zones or development by a solid fence, wall or vegetative buffer at least six (6) feet in height. (3) Parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. (4) DELETED. (5) Family day care homes shall not be established in areas where the health, safety, and welfare of the residents would be compromised. Examples of such areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites where environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law enforce- ment records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. (6) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed family day care home are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties. (g) Transition housing subject to the following criteria: (1) Transition housing may not be established within twelve hundred (1200) feet of a lawfully existing family personal care home, family day care home, adult day care facility, or other transition housing in A, R or P zones. (2) DELETED. (3) Transition housing shall not be located in areas where the health, safety, and welfare of the residents would be compromised. Examples of such  26 - 4 areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites where environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law enforcement records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. (4) The Planning Commission shall determine that the foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed transition housing are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to neighboring properties. In conducting this balancing test, the merit of the specific proposal shall be determined by evaluating the nature of the clientele (i.e. elderly, mentally retarded, halfway home for recovering addicts, etc.) the proposed number of occupants, and the nature of the operators of the facility (homeowners, professional staff, or untrained supervisory staff, etc.). (5) Approval, if granted shall be for a specific proposal, and any change in the nature of the clientele or increase in the number of occupants shall require another special exception. (h) Family personal care home subject to the following criteria: (1) A family personal care home may not be established within twelve hundred (1200) feet of a lawfully existing family day care home, adult day care facility, transition housing, or another family personal care home in A, R, or P zones. (2) DELETED. (3) A family personal care home shall not be located in areas where the health, safety, and welfare of the residents would be compromised. Examples of such areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites where environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law enforcement records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. (4) A family personal care home must meet the requirements set forth in Section 28-F Personal Care Homes of this ordinance. (5) The Planning Commission shall determine that the foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed family personal care home are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to neighboring properties. In conducting this balancing test, the merit of the specific proposal shall be determined by evaluating the nature of the clientele (i.e. elderly, mentally retarded, etc. ), the proposed number of occupants, and the nature of the operators of the facility (homeowners, professional staff, or untrained supervisory staff, etc.). (i) Club (private or public), lodge (nonprofit), golf course, country club, tennis facilities, privately owned and operated recreational facility, swimming pool, fishing lake, or similar recreational use subject to the following criteria: (1) The minimum size tract for a golf course or country club shall be fifty (50) acres. (2) A tract to be developed as a golf course or country club shall have at least one hundred (100) feet of frontage on a public or private road. (3) Structures except fences and walls shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet from property lines separating the property from contiguous properties zoned or developed for residential use. (4) Lighting shall be designed so that adjacent properties are not adversely affected. 26 - 5  (5) Outdoor activities shall cease at 11:00 P.M. (6) Lounges, clubhouses, and similar facilities shall be designed and operated for use by members and their guests, or patrons who are using the club or recreational facility. Lounges, clubhouses and similar facilities shall be located at least one hundred (100) feet from contiguous properties zoned or developed for residential use. (7) DELETED. (8) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed club, privately owned and operated recreational facility, swimming pool, fishing lake, or similar recreational use are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties. (j) Funeral homes subject to the following criteria: (1) A tract upon which a funeral home is to be established shall have at least one hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector street or an arterial street and be at least one acre in area. (2) Structures shall be set back at least twenty-five (25) feet from any property line separating the subject property from residentially zoned or developed properties. (3) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. (4) DELETED. (5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed funeral home are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to neighboring properties. (k) Private hospital subject to the following criteria: (1) A tract upon which a private hospital is to be established shall have at least two hundred fifty (250) feet of frontage on a collector or an arterial street and be at least five acres in area. (2) DELETED. (3) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. (4) Private hospitals shall not be located in areas where the health, safety, and welfare of the patients would be compromised. Examples of such areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites where environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law enforcement records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. (5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the  26 - 6 benefits of the proposed hospital are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties. (l) Airport or aircraft landing field. (m) Cemetery. (n) Sanitary Landfill  (o) Inert Fill Area (p) Uses which would in any way involve detained persons, or persons who would be or have been retained from correction facilities such as halfway homes, or similar uses that in any way relate to corrections or incarceration. (q) Excavation of mineral deposits including but not limited to stone, sand, clay, gravel, and operations incidental thereto may be permitted subject to the following criteria:  (1) Evidence that a Mined Land Use Plan, pursuant to 391-3-3-05 of the Georgia Environmental Rules, is being prepared for submission to Georgia E.P.D. No mining activity may be conducted without an approved Mined Land Use Plan. (2) Submission of a plat prepared by a Georgia Registered Land Surveyor at the time of the application showing conformance to the following spacing requirements: (a) No activity under this Subsection shall be conducted within 300 feet of a residence (b) No activity under this Subsection shall be conducted within 100 feet of an R-zone boundary unless a consent form provided by the Planning Commission and signed by the affected property owners is provided with the application. (c) No activity under the Subsection shall be conducted within 50 feet of any property line unless a consent form provided by the Planning Commission and signed by affected property owners is provided with the application. (2) Submission of supporting data at the time of application indicating that the impacts of the proposed activity including but not limited to noise, vibration, dust, stormwater, groundwater and aesthetics will not substantially diminish the quality of life of the surrounding community. This data may be part of the Mined Land Use Plan or it may be a separate submission. (r) Group Day Care Homes and Day Care Centers subject to the following criteria: (1) Such uses shall have adequate parking per Section 4 of this Ordinance. (2) Such uses shall not be established on property that is within 100 feet from a single family residence in a residential zone on another tract. (3) Such uses shall be established on tracts with at least 100 feet of frontage on a collector or arterial streets. 26 - 7 (4) Such uses established in A, R. or P zones shall not be located within 1,200 feet of another use provided for in Section 26 of this Ordinance. (5) Such uses established in R zones shall not exceed 1.5 times the average gross floor area of single family homes located within 300 feet of the property to be occupied by the day care center. (6) Such uses established in R zones may operate only between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and 9:00 P.M., after which time all activities must cease and all illumination other than typical residential security lighting shall be eliminated. (7) Such uses shall require approval of a site plan and conformance to the Augusta Tree Ordinance. (8) Signage for such uses located in R zones shall be as permitted in the P-1 zone. (s) Crematoriums– subject to the following restrictions and  regulations. (a) Cremation facilities are allowed as an accessory use wherein the   funeral home is identified as the primary use. (b)  Accessory cremation facilities shall be located at least two hundred   (200) feet from contiguous properties zoned or developed for   residential use. (c) Cremation facilities that are considered “stand-alone” shall be located at least two thousand five hundred (2,500) feet from contiguous properties zoned or developed for residential use. (d) Cremation facilities shall be consistent with all applicable state permit and licensing requirements. (e) No crematory incinerator shall have a discharge of smoke that exceeds ten percent (10%) ambient air. (f) The owner/operator shall record the hours of operation and total daily cremation rate for the facility:  1. No cremation activity on Monday – Friday between the   hours of 5 PM - 9 PM and during the weekend, 4 PM –   9 PM. Such activity shall not include the cooling down   period of the furnace which may take 1 to 2 hours. 2. Each human crematory operation shall record the daily   cremation rate in bodies per day. 3. Each animal crematory operation shall record the daily cremation rate in pounds per day. (g) Cremation facilities shall be consistent with all applicable state permit and licensing requirements. (h)  Records of the daily cremation rate and the facility’s hours of   operation shall be maintained on site in written or electronic logs. 26 - 8 (t)  Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facilities over 4 stories or 75 feet      must be approved by Special Exception under the guidelines set forth in   Permitted Uses (Section 22-1- b-9)  (u) Lodging or Boarding House shall conform to the following performance  standards:  (1) The Lodging or Boarding House (herein referred to as House) must meet all code requirements for health, safety, and welfare of the occupants. Plans must be submitted for review by the Building Department and Fire Department. Plans must conform to the following, but may not be limited to:  a) International Building Code b) International Plumbing Code c) International Mechanical Code d) International Gas Code e) National Electric Code f) ADA g) Life Safety Codes h) International Energy Conservation Code  Proof of compliance must be submitted with the application for Certificate of Occupancy and/or business license. (2) The maximum number of residents allowed for the House is dependent upon the specifications in the Home Design Requirements Section below and compliance with Building and Fire Dept. occupancy and safety determination. Under no circumstances may the House exceed the determined occupancy. (3) Only the primary residential structure may be utilized for the purposes of this request. No accessory structure may be constructed or modified to accommodate residents. (4) Upon approval of the House an applicant shall make no alternations or additions to the structure for the purpose of increasing the occupancy unless an amended application is presented and approved. (5) If the House fails to maintain compliance with all building, safety, health, and zoning requirements it shall be grounds for termination of the Special Exception and/or business license and the owner/operate shall thereafter be required to discontinue the use of the premises as a Lodging House or Boarding House. (6) Home Design Requirements:    26 - 9  Home Design Spacing Requirements Summary Table Category Requirement Living Room 3-5 persons in residence =        120 sq. ft. 6 or more persons in residence =     150 sq. ft. Dining Room 3-5 persons in residence =        80 sq. ft. 6 or more persons in residence =     120 sq. ft. Bedroom or private living spaces Per person in residence =         80 sq. ft. Functional toilet and lavatory * Per 4 residents =         1 functional toilet Showering facility * Per 4 residents =    1 bathing or showering facility  *The House must comply with all ADA requirements. (7) Off Street Parking Requirements:  Off-Street parking must be provided at one (1) space for each two (2) beds and one (1) space for the owner/resident manager. (Allowance may be made by the Planning and Development Staff, on a case by case basis, if public transportation is available/utilized by the residents and/or on-street parking is available.) Section 26-2  Any use, other than churches or church related activities approved under 26-1 (A), established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 26-1 must be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Special Exceptions for churches or church related activities granted per 26-1 shall initiate a use within five (5) years of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights. If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no longer be valid. Amended – August 2018 – Section 26-1 (t) and (u) Amended - August 2015 – Section 26-1 (s) Amended - June 2015 – Section 26-1 (h) (4) Amended - June 2013 – Section 26-1(b) Amended - May 2013 – added Section 26-1 (r) Amended - July 2011 – Section 26-1 (a) Amended - September 2010, 26-1(q) (1) Amended - November 2007, Section 26-1(q) Amended - August 2006, Section 26-2 Amended - Sept. 2004, Section 26-2  26 - 10  26 - 10  27 - 1 OTHER REGULATED USES SECTION 27 MANUFACTURED HOME REGULATIONS 27-1 Establishment of Manufactured Home Parks: New Manufactured Home Parks and expansion of existing Manufactured Home Parks shall be permitted only in R-MH (Manufactured Home Residential) Zones. 27-2 Procedure for constructing or altering a Manufactured Home Park: Application shall be made for doing same to the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission. The application shall be in letter form and shall show the following:  Name and address of applicant  Name and address of owner of land  Name and address of proposed operator  Number of spaces proposed to be provided  Acreage of land to be utilized  The application shall be accompanied by five copies of a plat of the land to be utilized. The plats shall show the following:  Bearings and distances for all property lines  Names and right-of-way widths for all streets bounding the property  Names and addresses of all surrounding property owners  Distances to nearest public water mains and sewer lines  Topography showing contours at 2-foot intervals and referenced to Mean Sea Level  Scale (not smaller than 1 inch = 100 feet) and North Arrow  Name and Registration Number of Surveyor or Engineer  The application for plan approval shall also be accompanied by a processing and investigation fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on every application for establishment or expansion of a Manufactured Home Park. In the event that the land proposed to be utilized for a Manufactured Home Park is not properly zoned, application for rezoning and application for plan approval may be made at the same time if all necessary submittals for plan approval are provided prior to application for rezoning. Public notice shall be given for plan approval, as well as for hearings on changes of Zoning Classification, when such approvals are not sought simultaneously. The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove each application for establishment or expansion of a Manufactured Home Park within thirty (30) days after holding a public hearing thereon, unless the applicant agrees to a longer time period; and the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall notify the applicant in writing of its decision. 27-3 Building permit for Manufactured Home Park: Accompanying a request for the establishment or expansion of a Manufactured Home Park, or upon request to alter such a park, the applicant shall submit to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development  27 - 2 Department plans and specifications for the development of such park in accordance with the requirements of this Ordinance. The Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall review such plans and specifications, and shall determine that all requirements of this Ordinance and other legal requirements have been met. In conducting its review, the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall submit copies of such plans and specifications to the Public Works Department, the Waterworks Department, to the Chief Building Official and the Richmond County Health Department. The Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department has received in writing the approval of all required agencies and has made its own determination that all requirements of this Ordinance and all other legal requirements have been met or will be met in the course of establishment, expansion, or alteration of the park, it shall certify the same in writing. to the Chief Building Official and shall forward to the Chief Building Official a copy of the approved plans and specifications. The Chief Building Official may then issue building permits for construction, expansion, or alteration of the Manufactured Home Park in accordance with the application made and plan and specifications approved for same and in accordance with all legal requirements. 27-4 Transfer of Manufactured Home Parks: Every Manufactured Home Park owner shall give notice in writing to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department within thirty (30) days after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any Manufactured Home Park. Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such park. 27-5 Conditions pertaining to existing Manufactured Home Parks: Manufactured Home Parks operating at the time of adoption of this Ordinance shall be allowed to continue operation provided that the minimum requirements of the Richmond County Board of Health are met by such parks. 27-6 Standards for development of Manufactured Home Parks: (a) Minimum Size of Tract: The minimum size of any tract to be developed for a Manufactured Home Park shall be five (5) acres and such tract shall have a minimum frontage on a paved public road or road to be paved and dedicated to the public of one hundred (100) feet. The tract shall comprise a single parcel and shall be and remain in the ownership of one person as defined herein. (b) Code Standards: No manufactured home manufactured on or after January 1, 1968 shall be admitted to any Manufactured Home Park on or after the date of the adoption of this Ordinance unless it can be demonstrated that it meets the requirements of one of the following: American Standards Association Code Provision A-119.1-1963, American Standards for Installation in Manufactured Home of Electrical, Heating, and Plumbing Systems; or Manufactured Home Manufacturer Association Manufactured Home Standards for Plumbing, Heating and Electrical Systems; or any state or locally-administered code insuring equal or better plumbing, heating, or electrical installations. (c) Hazardous Conditions: No Manufactured Home Park shall be so located as to be subjected to hazards of flood, poor soil conditions, poor drainage, or other hazardous conditions. (d) Every Manufactured Home Park shall be provided with a public water supply and public sewage disposal system. Individual septic tank systems may be utilized in  27 - 3 lieu of public systems provided they are developed in accordance with the provisions of the Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Ordinance. (e) Setback and Screening: No manufactured home, accessory structure, or other building in a Manufactured Home Park shall be located closer than fifty (50) feet from any park property line abutting any public street or highway nor closer than twenty (20) feet from any other Park property line. All Manufactured Home parks located adjacent to industrial or commercial land uses shall be provided with a screening buffer strip at least ten (10) feet wide along the property boundary lines separating parks and such adjacent nonresidential uses. Such screening shall consist of a solid fence not less than eight (8) feet in height or of evergreen vegetation of sufficient density to accomplish the purposes of a solid fence. Such screens shall be maintained in good order at all times. (f) Streets: Streets within Manufactured Home Parks shall be privately owned, constructed and maintained. Alignment and gradient shall be properly adapted to topography, to safe movement of traffic, to adequate control of surface water, ground water, and drainage. No street shall be provided with less than an all- weather surface. The type of road surface shall be determined by the Public Works Department. All streets shall have either concrete curbs, asphalt curbs or paved swells. The following widths shall be provided for surfaced portions of streets. (1) Class One Streets (less than 500' in length and serving 25 spaces or less on a two-way street): one way with no curbside parking - 11 feet; one way with curbside parking on one side only - 18 feet; one way with curbside parking on both sides - 24 feet; two way with no curbside parking - 22 feet; two way with curbside parking on one side- 27 feet; two way with curbside parking on both sides- 34 feet. (2) Class Two Streets (other than Minor Streets serving up to and including 200 spaces with no other limitation on length): one way with no parking- 28 feet; two way with no parking - 24 feet; one way with parking on one side- 24 feet; two way with parking on one side - 29 feet; one way with parking on two sides - 26 feet; two way with parking on two sides - 36 feet. (3) Class Three Streets (serving more than 200 spaces without limitation on length): same as for Collector streets but requiring sidewalks on at least one side. Such sidewalks shall be at least 3 feet wide and shall be paved. (4) At Access Points: where internal park streets intersect with public streets, the internal street shall have a surfaced width of 24 feet. (g) Space Standards: (1) Every manufactured home space within a Manufactured Home Park shall have an area of not less than 4,000 square feet with a minimum width at all points of 40 feet. Every such space shall have all corners clearly marked. (2) Each manufactured home space shall be directly accessible from an approved internal park street. No direct access to manufactured home spaces from public streets shall be granted. (3) Manufactured homes shall be separated from each other by not less than fifteen (15) feet end to end and twenty (20) feet side by side. (4) Each manufactured home space shall be provided with a concrete patio of at least one hundred (100) square feet which shall be convenient to the  27 - 4 entrance of the manufactured home. An awning may be placed over such patio, but no structure shall be placed thereon. (5) The minimum distance between manufactured homes located on opposite sides of an internal street shall be 36 feet. (6) Expandable rooms on manufactured homes shall be deemed an integral part of the manufactured home and shall meet all requirements stated herein. (h) Parking shall be provided at the minimum rate of one and one-half spaces for each manufactured home space. If such parking is provided on each manufactured home space, it shall be at the minimum rate of one and one-half spaces for each manufactured home space and each space shall have minimum dimensions of ten (10) feet by twenty (20) feet. If provided in common off-street parking bays, the following standards shall apply:  PARKING ANGLE CURB LENGTH PER CAR MINIMUM BAY DEPTH* MINIMUM BACKING DEPTH* 900 9.0' 18' 24' 600 12.5' 17' 20' 250 12.7' 16' 19'  * Perpendicular to curb  (i) Illumination: Adequate illumination on all streets and sidewalks shall be provided to insure the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night. Such illumination shall create no direct glare into surrounding areas. (j) Fire Protection: (1) All Manufactured Home Parks shall be equipped with fire protection equipment as required by the latest locally adopted codes. (2) Portable fire extinguishers of an approved type shall be kept in service buildings and at all other appropriate locations and shall be maintained in good operating condition. (3) Standard fire hydrants shall be located with adequate access within 500 feet of any part of a building used as a manufactured residence or accessory use. (k) Landscaping and Ground Cover: It is the intent of this Section of this Ordinance that the areas provided for setbacks shall be appropriately landscaped and planted so as to provide a pleasing appearance to surrounding property. Further, ground cover in the form of grass or other vegetation shall be provided throughout every Manufactured Home Park so as to provide pleasant and, insofar as practicable, dust-free conditions. (l) Recreation: Not less than ten (10) percent of the total area of every Manufactured Home Park shall be reserved and developed for a recreation area. Such area shall be centrally located within each Manufactured Home Park and shall contain individual areas which shall be equipped for passive adult recreation, children's play, and a fenced tot lot. If a swimming pool is furnished, it shall be separated from all other uses by a fence having a gate which is capable of remaining closed. Required setbacks shall not be counted as part of the required recreation area. Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area   27 - 5 27-7 Locating Individual Manufactured Homes on Individual Lots: Individual manufactured homes may be permitted on individual lots, parcels, or tracts in A (Agriculture) or R-MH (Manufactured Home Residence) Zones under the following conditions: (a) Individual manufactured homes shall conform to all requirements of the zone in which the homes are located. (b) Individual manufactured homes in A (Agriculture) Zones shall be located at least 150 feet from any previously existing permanent dwelling. (c) DELETED. (d) No manufactured home shall be located on any lot, parcel, or tract occupied by any other dwelling or manufactured home, and only one manufactured home shall be located on each individual lot, parcel, or tract. (e) Any manufactured home located on an individual lot, parcel, or tract shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. Title 8, Chapter 2, Article 2, Part 3, and shall be provided with a solid skirting / curtain wall enclosure constructed of masonry to include stone, faux stone, brick, faced block, or stucco with the required vents. (f) No manufactured home shall be located on an individual lot, parcel, or tract until the location has been approved by the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department, the Chief Building Inspector, and the Richmond County Health Department. 27-8 Nonconforming Individual Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes on individual lots, parcels, or tracts which were in place on January 1, 1980 are declared to be legal nonconforming uses at their current location; provided however, that said manufactured homes may not be altered or expanded in any way unless the alteration or expansion results in conformance with this Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. Amended – Section 27-7(e) – June 2011  28 - 1 SECTION 28 AIRPORT REGULATIONS 28-1 General Regulations: The following general regulations shall apply to all airports encompassed by the area of this Ordinance. (a) Flight Zones: All land within the boundaries of Daniel Field and within two (2) miles of the landing area of the airports within Augusta, Georgia, are hereby divided into Airport Approach Zones and Airport Turning Zones. The inner-area of the Airport Approach Zones are shown on the Airport Approach Standards Maps by reference made a part hereof. The turning zones and the outer-area of the Airport Approach Zones are that area within two (2) miles of the boundaries of the landing area and the inner-area of the Airport Approach Zones. The Airport Approach Standards Maps may be revised or replaced from time to time to correspond with zone restrictions and approach standards, as required by the Airport Manager and/or the Civil Aeronautic Authority. (b) Height Limits: Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any Airport Approach Zone or Airport Turning Zone to a height in excess of the height limit herein established for such zone. For the purpose of this regulation, the following height limits are hereby established for each of the zones in question: (1) Inner-area Airport Approach Zones- as shown on Airport Approach Standards Maps. (2) Outer-area Airport Approach Zones- one hundred and fifty (150) feet above the elevation of the boundaries of the airport landing area. (3) Turning Zones- one hundred and fifty (150) feet above the boundaries of the airport landing area. (c) Use Restrictions: Not withstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, no use may be made of land within any Airport Approach Zone or Airport Turning Zone in such a manner as to create electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for fliers to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of fliers using the airport, or otherwise endanger the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft. (d) Hazard Marking and Lighting: Variances from this Ordinance granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals may be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the Augusta, Georgia Commission, to install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be deemed necessary to indicate to fliers the presence of the airport hazard. (e) Future Airports: The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to future airports located within the area encompassed by this Ordinance. (f) If in conflict with these regulations, the provisions of CFR 49 Part 77 shall govern the maximum height of obstacles to aviation in Augusta. 28-2 Bush Field Airport Regulations: (a) Definitions: As used in this portion of the Ordinance, unless the content otherwise requires, the following definitions shall be used: (1) Airport Elevation means the established elevation of the highest point on the usable landing area. 28 - 2 (2) Airport Hazard means any structure, tree, or use of land which obstructs the airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in landing or taking-off at the airport. (3) Airport Reference Point means the point established as the approximate geographic center of the airport landing area and so designated. (4) Height - for the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this Ordinance and shown on the Zoning Map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified. (5) Instrument Runway means a runway equipped or to be equipped with electronic or visual air navigation aids adequate to permit the landing of aircraft under restricted visibility conditions. (6) Landing Area means the area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff, or taxing of aircraft. (7) Nonconforming Use means any structure, tree, or use of land which is lawfully in existence at the time the regulations are prescribed in this Ordinance or an amendment thereto becomes effective and does not then meet the requirements of said regulations. (8) Non-instrument Runway means a runway other than an instrument runway. (9) Person means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association, or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, administrator, executor, guardian, or other representative. (10) Runway means the paved surface of an airport landing strip. (11) Structure means an object constructed or installed by man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, smoke- stacks, and overhead transmission lines. (12) Tree means any object of natural growth. (b) Zones: In order to carry out the provisions of this Ordinance, there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying within the Instrument Approach Zones, Non-instrument Approach Zones, Transition Zones, Horizontal Zone, and Conical Zone. Such areas and zones are shown on the Bush Field Airport Zoning Map consisting of one sheet prepared by the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission and dated March 8, 1982, which is attached to this Ordinance and made a part hereof. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows: (1) Instrument Approach Zone- An Instrument Approach Zone is established at each end of the instrument runway for instrument landings and takeoffs. The Instrument Approach Zone shall have a width of one thousand (1,000) feet at a distance of two hundred (200) feet beyond each end of the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of sixteen thousand (16,000) feet a distance of fifty thousand two hundred (50,200) feet beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway. (2) Non-instrument Approach Zone- A Non-instrument Approach Zone is established at each end of all non-instrument runways on Bush Field Airport for non-instrument landings and takeoffs. The Non-instrument Approach Zone shall have a width of five hundred (500) feet at a distance of two hundred (200) feet beyond each end of the runway, widening   28 - 3 thereafter uniformly to a width of fifteen hundred (1,500) feet at a horizontal distance of five thousand (5,000) feet beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway. (3) Transition Zones- Transition Zones are hereby established adjacent to each instrument and non-instrument runway and approach zone as indicated on the Zoning Map. Transition Zones, symmetrically located on either side of runways, have variable widths as shown on the Zoning Map. Transition Zones extend outward from a line two hundred fifty (250) feet on either side of the centerline of the non-instrument runway; for the length of such runway plus two hundred (200) feet on each end; and five hundred (500) feet on either side of the centerline of the instrument runway, for the length of such runway plus two hundred (200) feet on each end, and are parallel and level with such runway centerlines. The Transition Zones along such runways slope upward and outward one (1) foot vertically for each seven (7) feet horizontally to the point where they intersect the surface of the Horizontal Zone. Further, Transition Zones are established adjacent to both Instrument and Non- instrument Approach Zones for the entire length of the Approach Zones. These Transition Zones have variable widths, as shown on the Zoning Map. Such Transition Zones flare symmetrically with either side of the Runway Approach Zones from the base of such zones and slope upward and outward at the rate of one (1) foot vertically for each seven (7) feet horizontally to the points where they intersect the surfaces of the Horizontal and Conical Zones. Additionally, Transition Zones are established adjacent to the Instrument Approach Zone where it projects through and beyond the limits of the Conical Zone, extending a distance of five thousand (5,000) feet measured horizontally from the edge of the Instrument Approach Zones at right angles to the continuation of the centerline of the runway. (4) Horizontal Zone - A Horizontal Zone is hereby established by swinging arcs of ten thousand (10,000) feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs. The Horizontal Zone does not include the Instrument and Non-instrument Approach and Transitional Zones. (5) Conical Zone - A Conical Zone is hereby established commencing at the periphery of the Horizontal Zone and extending outward and upward from the periphery of the Horizontal Zone surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a Horizontal Zone distance of four thousand (4,000) feet. The Conical Zone does not include the Instrument and Non- instrument Approach and Transition Zones. (c) Height Limitations: Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in any zone created by this Ordinance to a height in excess of the height limit herein established for such zone. Such height limitations are computed from the established airport elevation and are hereby established for: (1) Instrument Approach Zone- One (1) foot in height for each fifty (50) feet in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred (200) feet from and at the elevation of the end of the instrument runway and extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand (10,000) feet; thence, one (1) foot for  28 - 4 each forty (40) feet for an additional horizontal distance of forty thousand (40,000) feet beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway. (2) Non-instrument Approach Zones- One (1) foot in height for each twenty (20) feet in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred (200) feet from and at the elevation of the end of the non-instrument runway and extending to a point five thousand (5,000) feet beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway. (3) Transition Zones- One (1) foot in height for each seven (7) feet in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred fifty (250) feet normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of non-instrument runways extending two hundred (200) feet beyond each end thereof, and five hundred (500) feet normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of the instrument runway extending two hundred (200) feet beyond each end thereof, extending to a height of one hundred fifty (150) feet above the airport elevation which is 145.14 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits of one (1) foot vertical for each seven (7) feet horizontal distance measured from the edges of all approach zones for the entire length of the approach zones and extending upward and outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal or conical surfaces. Further, where the Instrument Approach Zone projects through and beyond the Conical Zone, a height limit of one foot for each seven (7) feet of horizontal distance shall be maintained beginning at the edge of the Instrument Approach Zone and extending a distance of five thousand (5,000) feet from the edge of the Instrument Approach Zone measured normal to the centerline of the runway extended. (4) Horizontal Zone- One hundred and fifty (150) feet above the airport elevation or a height of 295.14 feet above mean sea level except where the existing elevation is greater than 245.14 feet above mean sea level, in which case the horizontal zone shall equal the existing ground elevation plus fifty (50) feet. (5) Conical Zone- One (1) foot in height for each twenty (20) feet of horizontal distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone, extending to a height of 495.14 feet above the airport elevation. Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed as prohibiting the growth, construction, or maintenance of any tree or structure to a height up to twenty (20) feet above the surface of the land. (d) Use Restrictions: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, no use may be made of land within any zone established by this Ordinance in such a manner as to create electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for fliers to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of fliers using the airport, impair visibility or otherwise endanger the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft. (e) Nonconforming Uses: (1) Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this Ordinance shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as  28 - 5 of the effective date of this Ordinance or otherwise interfere with the continuation of any nonconforming use. (2) Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this Section, the owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Federal Aviation Administration to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the Augusta, Georgia Commission. (f) Permits: (1) Future uses- except as specifically provided in the paragraph whereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted, or otherwise established in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefore shall have been applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. In the area lying within the limits of the Horizontal Zone and Conical Zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than seventy-five (75) feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because terrain, land contour, or topographic features such tree or structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zone. In the areas lying within the limits of the instrument and non-instrument approach zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than four thousand two hundred (4,200) feet from each end of the runways, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than seventy-five (75) feet of vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features would extend above the height limit prescribed for such instrument or non-instrument approach zone. In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than seventy-five (75) feet of vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such transition zones. Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration, or growth of any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limits established by this Ordinance. (2) Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree to be made higher or become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of this Ordinance or any  28 - 6 amendments thereto or than it is when the applications for such a permit shall be granted. (3) Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. When ever the Chief Building Official determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations. (4) Hazard marking and lights. Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this Ordinance and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the Augusta Commission, to install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to fliers the presence of an airport hazard. Amended February 5, 2013 – Section 1(f)  28 - A - 1 SECTION 28-A  TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES  28-A-1 PURPOSE. This section is designed and intended to balance the interests of the  residents of Augusta-Richmond County, telecommunications providers and  telecommunications customers in the siting of telecommunications facilities within Augusta, Georgia so as to protect the health, safety and integrity of residential neighborhoods and foster through appropriate zoning and land use controls, a competitive environment for telecommunications carriers that does not unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless services and  shall not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services, and so as to promote Augusta, Georgia as a proactive city in the availability of personal wireless telecommunications service. To that end, this section shall: A. Provide for the appropriate local land use and development of telecommunications facilities in Augusta-Richmond County; B. Protect Augusta, Georgia’s built and natural environment by promoting compatible design standards for telecommunications facilities; C. Minimize adverse visual impacts of telecommunications facilities through careful design, siting, landscape screening and innovative camouflaging techniques; D. Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower or antenna failure through engineering and careful siting of telecommunications tower structures and antenna; E. Maximize use of any new and existing telecommunications towers so as to minimize the need to construct new towers and minimize the total number of towers throughout Augusta, Georgia; F. Maximize and encourage use of alternative telecommunication tower structures rather than construction of additional single-use towers; and G. Encourage and promote the location of new telecommunications facilities in areas which are not zoned for residential use. 28-A-2 DEFINITIONS. As used in this ordinance, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated: A. "Antenna" means any exterior apparatus designed for the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves for telephonic, radio, television, or personal wireless services. For the purposes of this ordinance the term "antenna" does not include any tower and antenna under seventy (70) feet in total height which is owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission, and any device designed for over-the-air reception of radio or television broadcast signals. B. “Director” means the Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department C. "Governing body" means the Augusta Commission; D. "Monopole tower" means a telecommunications tower consisting of a single pole constructed without guy wires or ground anchors; E. “Panel Antenna” means a flat surfaced antenna used for transmitting and receiving radio signals. F. “Permitted Use” means the use of land that is allowed “by right” requiring no further zoning action or special exception to permit its development. 28 - A - 2 G. “Stealth Facility” means a telecommunications facility that is not readily identifiable as a telecommunications facility, is visually unobtrusive, and has an innovative approach to construction. H. "Telecommunications facilities" refers to antenna and towers, either individually or together. I. "Tower" means a structure, such as a lattice tower, or monopole tower constructed as a freestanding structure or in association with a building, other permanent structure or equipment on which is located one or more antenna intended for transmitting or receiving analog, digital, microwave, cellular, telephone, personal wireless service or similar forms of electronic communication. The term includes microwave towers, common carrier towers, and cellular telephone towers; J. "Whip antenna" means an antenna vertically oriented, for transmitting and receiving radio signals. 28-A-3 EXEMPTIONS. The following shall be exempt from this ordinance: A. Any tower and antenna under seventy (70) feet in total height which is owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission; B. Any device designed for the over-the-air reception of radio or television broadcast signals; or C. Any telecommunications facilities located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by Augusta, Georgia provided a license or lease authorizing the telecommunications facility has been approved;  28-A-4 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. The following shall govern the location and construction of all telecommunication facilities regulated by this ordinance: A. Building Codes and Safety Standards. To ensure the structural integrity of telecommunications facilities, the owner of a telecommunications facility shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable local building codes and constructed to the EIA/TIA 222-E standards, as published by the Electric Industries Association, which may be amended from time to time. Owners of telecommunications facilities shall conduct periodic inspections of such facilities at least once every five years to ensure structural integrity. Inspections shall be conducted by a qualified independent engineer licensed to practice in Georgia. The results of such inspection shall be provided to the Director. B. Regulatory Compliance. 1. All telecommunications facilities must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC and any other agency of the state or federal government with the authority to regulate telecommunications facilities. 2. Owners of telecommunications facilities shall provide certification showing that each telecommunications facility is in compliance with all applicable federal and state requirements. Certification of compliance must be submitted every 5 years. 28 - A - 3 C. Visual Impact. 1. Telecommunications facilities shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish, or subject to any applicable standards of the FAA or other applicable federal or state agency, be painted a neutral color or painted and/or textured to match the existing structure so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness. 2. If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and associated electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral color or identical to, or closely compatible with the color of the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible. Roof-mounted antennas shall be made visually unobtrusive by screening to match existing air conditioning units, stairs, elevator towers or other background. 3. Where feasible, telecommunications facilities should be placed directly above, below or incorporated with vertical design elements of a building to help in camouflaging. 4. Any equipment shelter or cabinet that supports telecommunications facilities must be concealed from public view or made compatible with the architecture of the surrounding structures or placed underground. Equipment shelters or cabinets shall be screened from public view by using landscaping or materials and colors consistent with the surrounding backdrop. The shelter or cabinet must be regularly maintained. 5. Site location and development shall preserve the primary character of the surrounding buildings and land uses and the zone district as much as possible. Towers shall be integrated through location and design to blend in with existing characteristics of the site to the extent practical. 6. Except for stealth facilities, towers shall not be sited where they would, in the opinion of the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission, negatively affect (a) historic structures or landmarks that are recognized or designated in national or state historic registers, or (b) structures or landmarks that are at least fifty (50) years old and, in the opinion of the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission have some demonstrable historic value. 7. At a tower site the design of the buildings and related structures shall to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the tower and related facilities to the natural setting and built environment. D. Landscaping. 1. Landscaping shall be used to effectively screen the view of the telecommunication facility from adjacent public ways, public property and residential property. 2. Native vegetation on the site shall be preserved to the greatest practical extent. The applicant shall provide a site plan showing existing significant vegetation to be removed, and vegetation to be replanted to replace that lost. 3. The landscaping requirement, where lesser requirements are desirable for adequate visibility for security purposes, for continued operation of existing bona fide agricultural or forest uses such as farms, nurseries and  28 - A - 4 tree farms or where an antenna is placed on an existing structure may be modified or waived upon approval of the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission. In certain locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, such as remote agricultural or rural locations or developed heavy industrial areas, the landscaping requirement may be modified or waived upon approval by the Augusta, Georgia County Planning Commission. 4. Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved or improved, and disturbance of the existing topography shall be minimized, unless such disturbance would result in less visual impact of the site to the surrounding area. 5. The landscaping provisions of this section shall not apply to telecommunication facilities located in LI (Light Industry) and HI (Heavy Industry) zones, unless the site is in view of a residential use in a residential zone, as viewed from the base of the tower. This does not exempt such development from the provisions of the Augusta Tree Ordinance. E. Setbacks. The following setback requirements shall apply to all telecommunications facilities, provided however, that the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission may reduce the standard setback requirements of this section if the goals of this ordinance would be better served thereby:  1. Telecommunications towers must be set back a distance equal to the height of the tower from any existing off-site residential structure. 2. Telecommunications towers must be set back a distance equal to one half of the height of the tower from any property line which borders a single family residentially zoned lot that is either located in a developed or developing subdivision or a tract for which a legal subdivision development plan is on file. 3. Towers, guy wires and accessory facilities must satisfy the zoning district setback requirements as identified in Sections 7-28 of this Ordinance. 4. The tower setbacks referenced in Subsections 1 and 2 of this Section [28- A-4(E)] shall be measured from the base of the tower itself. F. Miscellaneous. 1. Lighting: No illumination is permitted on telecommunications facilities unless required by the FCC, FAA, or other state or federal agency of competent jurisdiction or unless necessary for air traffic safety. When lighting is required, it shall be oriented inward to the extent possible so as not to project onto surrounding residential property. 2. Advertising. No advertising is permitted on telecommunications facilities. However, whip antennas or panel antennas may be allowed on any legally permitted permanent billboard or outdoor advertising sign as long as the other requirements of this ordinance are met. 3. Telecommunication facilities may be located on sites containing other principal uses in the same buildable area. 4. Security. Towers shall be enclosed by decay-resistance security fencing not less than six (6) feet in height and shall be equipped with an appropriate anti- climbing device or other similar protective device designed to prevent tower  28 - A - 5 access. If the owner can demonstrate the ability to restrict unauthorized access to the tower, then this latter provision may be waived by the Director. 28-A-5 DISTRICT REGULATIONS. A. Agriculture (A) Zone. 1. Telecommunication towers may be located in an A zone upon the granting of a special exception. 2. Factors to be considered in granting a special exception are identified in 28-A-6. B. Single-family Residential Zone (R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D, and R-1E): 1. Telecommunication facilities not exempted under 28-A(3) may not be located in the R-1 zone as permitted uses; 2. Monopole and antenna telecommunication facilities may be located in a single family residential zone upon the granting of a special exception. 3. In order to qualify for consideration by Special Exception in the R-1 zone, telecommunication facilities must be located on existing nonresidential structures, or designed as stealth facilities. 4. Factors to be considered in granting a Special Exception are identified in 28-A-6. C. Two-family Residential (R-2), Multiple-Family Residential (R-3A, R-3B, and R- 3C), Manufactured Home Residential (R-MH), and Professional (P-1) Zones. 1. Telecommunication facilities or antenna, and stealth facilities shall be permitted uses in the R-2, R-3A, R-3B, R-3C, R-MH, and P-1 zones, if they are located on existing nonresidential structures, and as long as they do not exceed the height allowable in the zone. Whip antennas or panel antennas may extend twenty (20) feet above the height limit. 2. Otherwise, telecommunications towers may be located in the R-2, R-3A, R-3B, R-3C, R-MH, and P-1 zones upon the granting of a special exception. 3. Factors to be considered in granting a Special Exception are identified in 28-A-6. D. Neighborhood Business Zone (B-1). 1. Monopole telecommunication facilities and antenna may be located in the B-1 zone as permitted uses so long as they do not exceed the height limit for the zone, except that whip antennas or panel antennas can extend twenty (20) feet above the height limit. 2. Other telecommunication facilities may be located in the B-1 zone upon the granting of a Special Exception. 3. Factors to be considered in granting a Special Exception are identified in 28-A-6. E. General Business Zone (B-2) 1. A telecommunication facility may be located in the B-2 zone as a permitted use under the following conditions: (a) does not exceed the height limit of the zone, and within ½ mile of a proposed tower location there are no existing structures the top of which appear to be 90% or more of the height (elevation AMSL) of the proposed tower; or  28 - A - 6 (b) It exceeds the height limit for the zone, but not by more than thirty (30) feet, and the tower will be built to accommodate two other wireless carriers (at least 3) and within ½ mile of a proposed tower location there are no other existing structures the top of which appear to be 90% or more of the height (elevation AMSL) of the proposed tower; or (c) It does not exceed the height limit for the zone and the applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department that coverage / capacity capability and system design would be compromised if the applicant were required to co-locate. 2. In all other cases, telecommunication facilities may be permitted in the B- 2 zone by special exception. 3. Factors to be considered in granting a special exception are identified in 28-A6. 4. Whip antennas or panel antennas may extend twenty (20) feet above the height limit for the zone or any other permitted height as indicated above. F. Industrial Zones (LI and HI). Telecommunication facilities may be located in the LI and HI zones under the following conditions: 1. As permitted uses in the LI zone if the height is not to exceed 200 feet; and 2. As permitted uses in the HI zone if the height is not to exceed 350 feet. 3. In all other cases, telecommunication facilities may be permitted in the LI and HI zones by special exception. 4. Factors to be considered in granting a special exception are identified in 28-A6. 28-A-6 SPECIAL EXCEPTION. Criteria to be used to evaluate applications that require special exceptions shall include the    following: 1. height of proposed structure 2. distances to residences 3. nature of surrounding land use 4. surrounding topography 5. surrounding tree coverage 6. design of structure - characteristics that reduce obtrusiveness 7. design of structure - ability to accommodate additional antenna 8. ingress and egress 9. availability of towers or other tall structures within one-half mile of the proposed site. If within ½ mile of a proposed tower location there are existing structures the top of which appear to be 90% or more of the height (elevation AMSL) of the proposed tower site, then evidence must be provided with the application that existing structures are not of sufficient strength, or applicant use of structure would cause conflict with the existing use of structure, or that the cost of sharing would be unreasonable, or that the structure is not available for co-location, or coverage / capacity capability and system design would be compromised. (SEE 28-A-7);  28 - A - 7 10. Proximity to property owned by Augusta, Georgia that could be utilized for construction at the same or less cost to the carrier while accomplishing the same coverage goals of the carrier. 28-A-7 APPLICATION PROCEDURE. Applications for the construction of  telecommunications facilities, except for whip antennas and panel antennas where they are permitted uses, shall be made to the staff of the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission. A cursory review during an initial conference regarding a proposed facility may be held, but applications will not be accepted unless they contain the following information: A. Site plan or plans to scale specifying the location of telecommunications facilities, transmission building and/or other accessory uses, access, fences, landscaped area and adjacent land uses. B. Landscape plan to scale indicating size, spacing and type of plantings required in Section 28-A-2d. C. A general description of the environment surrounding the proposed telecommunications facility accompanied by a map covering an area at least one- half mile in radius, to scale no greater than one inch to 1200 feet, showing any adjacent residential structures and districts, structures and sites of historic significance, streetscapes or scenic view corridors. D. For those proposed tower locations requiring a special exception or for those facilities for which the elevation of the top of other structures could result in the need for a special exception, identification of the geographic service area for the subject installation, including a map covering an area at least one-half mile in radius and at a scale no greater than one inch to 1200 feet showing the site and the nearest or associated telecommunications facility sites within the network of the applicant. Describe the distance between the telecommunications facility sites of the applicant. Describe how this service area fits into and is necessary for the service network of the applicant. E. For those proposed tower locations requiring a special exception or for those facilities for which the elevation of the top of other structures could result in the need for a special exception, a map covering an area of at least one-half mile in radius, to scale no greater than one inch to 1200 feet, showing all publicly owned property and buildings per information provided by Augusta, Georgia, telecommunication facilities, and structures that are 90% or more of the proposed facility height (AMSL). Provide a list of all such properties and structures including street addresses, and a statement describing good faith efforts and measures that were taken to secure these locations, addressing why such properties and structures were not structurally, legally, technically, or economically feasible and why such efforts were unsuccessful. F. For those proposed tower locations requiring a special exception or for those facilities for which the elevation of the top of other structures could result in the need for a special exception, the applicant shall quantify the additional tower capacity to be constructed if the proposal is granted, including the approximate number and types of antenna that it could accommodate. The applicant shall provide a drawing of each tower showing existing and proposed antenna locations. The applicant shall also describe any limitations on the ability of the tower to accommodate other uses, e.g., radio frequency interference, mass height, frequency or other characteristics. The applicant shall provide certification that  28 - A - 8 notice of the application has been given to all other telecommunication tower users in the area by certified mail identifying the proposed location and asking for their input regarding co-location possibilities. G. Report from the applicant documenting the following: 1. Telecommunications facility height and design, including technical, engineering, economic, and other pertinent factors governing selection of the proposed design; 2. Total anticipated capacity of the telecommunications facility, including number and types of antenna which can be accommodated; 3. Evidence of structural integrity of the tower structure; and 4. Structural failure characteristics of the telecommunications facility and demonstration that site and setbacks are of adequate size to contain debris. H. The identity of a community liaison officer appointed by the applicant to resolve issues of concern to neighbors and residences relating to the construction and operation of the facility. Include name, address, telephone number, facsimile number and electronic mail address, if applicable. I. For those proposed tower locations requiring a special exception or for those facilities for which the elevation of the top of other structures could result in the need for a special exception, a schedule for construction of the proposed facility if zoning authorization is granted. Upon approval of a special exception, construction must begin within one year or the special exception shall be null and void. An applicant who is licensed by the FCC may submit a revised schedule to the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission within the one year period asking for an extension, which the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission shall have the authority to consider as a variance. In no case shall an applicant who is not licensed by the FCC be eligible for a variance from the one year provision. J. A full inventory of existing towers and which carriers are located on each, that are  controlled by the applicant It's affiliates, subsidiaries, and or assigns. This can be  provided digitally  28-A-8 ABANDONED TOWERS. A. Any telecommunications facility that is not operated for a continuous period of two (2) years or more shall be considered abandoned, whether or not the owner or operator intends to make use of it or any part of it. The owner of a telecommunications facility and the owner of the property where the facility is located shall remove the abandoned telecommunications facility. If such antenna and/or tower is not removed within sixty (60) days of receipt of a notice from Augusta, Georgia, notifying the owner(s) of such abandonment, Augusta, Georgia may remove such tower and/or antenna and place a lien upon the property to insure that abandoned telecommunications facilities are removed. Delay by Augusta, Georgia in taking action shall not in any way waive Augusta, Georgia’s right to take action. Augusta, Georgia may seek to have the telecommunications facility removed regardless of the owner's or operator's intent to operate the tower or antenna and regardless of any permits, federal, state or otherwise, which may have been granted. B. If the owner of a tower or antenna, which has been abandoned for a period of two years or more, wishes to use such abandoned tower or antenna, the owner first must apply for and receive all applicable permits and meet all of the conditions of this ordinance as if such tower or antenna were a new tower or antenna. 28 - A - 9  28-A-9 PRE-EXISTING TOWER / NONCONFORMING USES. A. All telecommunications facilities operative on the effective date shall be allowed to continue their present usage as a nonconforming use and shall be treated as a nonconforming use in accordance with Section 5 of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. Routine maintenance, including replacement with a new tower or antenna of like construction and height, shall be permitted on such existing telecommunications facilities. New construction other than routine maintenance shall comply with the requirements of this ordinance. B. Proposed communication antennae may, and are encouraged to, collocate onto existing communication towers. Collocations are permitted by right and new or additional special exception approval shall not be required. C. An existing communication tower may be modified or rebuilt to a height not to exceed thirty (30) feet more than the existing tower’s height, to accommodate the location of additional communication antennae. An increase in height per this provision shall only be permitted one time at a given tower location. The following provisions shall also apply: 1. The type of construction shall be the same tower type as the existing communication tower or of monopole design. 2. The additional height shall not require an additional distance separation as set forth in either subsections 28-A-4E (1), (2), or (3). 3. A communication tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the collocation of additional communication antennae may be moved on-site within one hundred (100) feet of its existing location so long as it is not moved closer to any residential structures than the existing location had been. 4. After the communication tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation, only one tower may remain on the site. 5. A relocated on-site communication tower shall continue to be measured from the original tower location. The relocation of a tower hereunder shall in no way be deemed to cause violation of subsections 28-A4E (1), (2), or (3). 6. The on-site relocation of a communication tower that is greater than one hundred (100) feet and which comes within the set back distances to residential units, as established in Section 28-A-4E of this ordinance, shall be permitted only when notarized written consent is obtained from adjoining residential property owners. Nonconforming residential structures of three (3) or less do not apply. D. Placement of an antenna on a nonconforming structure shall not be considered an expansion of the nonconforming structure. Amended June 2013 – added 28-A-7-J  28 - B - 0  28 – B- 1 SECTION 28-B  SIGNS  28-B-1 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS. The purpose of this Section is to provide fair and comprehensive regulations that will promote safety by eliminating confusing, distracting and unsafe signs; assure the opportunity for businesses to advertise in an efficient and cost- effective manner; and enhance the physical appearance, natural beauty and historical significance of Augusta. It is declared that the regulation of signs within Augusta is necessary and in the public interest:  A. PURPOSE – This article is enacted for the following purposes:  1. To promote traffic safety and protect the general public from damage and injury caused, or partially attributable to, the distractions or obstructions impairing motorists' ability to see pedestrians, other vehicles, obstacles or traffic signs which are caused by improperly designed or situated signs; 2. To protect property values within Augusta; 3. To promote and aid in the tourist industry which is declared to be of importance to the economy of Augusta; 4. To provide a pleasing overall environmental setting and community appearance which is deemed vital to tourism and to the continued economic attractiveness of Augusta; 5. To protect the right of citizens to enjoy Augusta's natural scenic beauty; 6. To improve the legibility and effectiveness of commercial and governmental signs; and 7. To preserve and promote the public health, safety and welfare in the City. 8. To enhance the aesthetics of the community. B. FINDINGS:  1. The City finds that signs are a proper use of private property, are a means of personal free expression and a necessary component of a commercial environment. As such, signs are entitled to the protection of the law. In the absence of regulation, however, the number of such signs tends to proliferate, with property owner’s desiring ever increasing numbers and sizes of signs, leading to cluttered blighted thoroughfares, in addition, the competition among competing sign owners for visibility of their signs contribute to safety hazards for both vehicles and pedestrians and undermines the sign owner’s original purpose of presenting a clear message of its idea or identification of its premises. 2. The City further finds that the regulation of the size, height, number and spacing of signs is necessary to protect the public safety, to assure compatibility of signs with surrounding land uses, to enhance the business and economy of the City to protect, to protect the public investment in the streets and highways, to maintain the tranquil environment of residential areas, to promote industry and commerce, to eliminate visual clutter and blight, to provide and aesthetically appealing environment and to provide for the orderly and reasonable display of signs for the benefit of all the City’s citizens. 28 – B- 2 3. The City further finds that there is a substantial difference between signs erected by public authority and signs erected by private citizens or businesses. Signs erected by pubic authority are virtually all erected for the purpose of maintaining the public safety either through direct control of traffic or through provision of such type signage as street signs which enable the traveling public to know where they are located and to find where they are going. As such, with the exception of signs identifying government buildings, virtually all government signs are erected purely for public safety purposes. Moreover, their use in public right-of-way is necessary to ensure their visibility to the motoring public. The City finds that public utility signs are frequently of the same nature as those signs erected by government entities in that they provide necessary information to safeguard the public from downed power lines and from street excavations. Even where signs serve a propriety purpose, such as identifying markings on utility poles, those signs are marked primarily for the purpose of benefiting the public generally through identification of locations where there may be temporary losses of power. 4. The City further finds that some signage has a single targeted function and that identification of such signage by description is impossible without referring to its function. For instance, address numerals are used for the sole purpose of locating addresses, which is of benefit to persons looking for those addresses and is essential to public safety personnel responding to emergencies. Subdivision signs at the entrances to subdivisions favor a similar purpose in enabling both the traveling public and emergency personnel to quickly locate subdivision entrances for the purpose of either visitation or responding to emergency calls. While such signage is often referenced based upon the function it serves within the context of this ordinance, whenever, possible it is the intent of this ordinance to refer to signs unrelated to the content of speech provided and to allow maximum expressive potential to sign owners. 28-B-2 DEFINITIONS. For the purpose of this Section the following definitions will be used: Banner. A sign or outside advertising display bearing the characters, letters, illustrations, ornamentations, symbols, colors, or visual representations applied to cloth, paper, vinyl, fiber, plastic, or like malleable material with or without frame. The term "banner" shall include flags, pennants, life rafts, t-shirts, towels, ribbons, spinners, streamers, kites, balloons, tethered hot air balloons, inflatable devices, and similar objects, or any other material or outside advertising display whether stationary or fastened in such a manner as to move upon being subjected to movement of the atmosphere or any mechanical device. A banner may or may not have lettering or other specific identification or advertising information or graphics. Billboard – A sign, single face, double face, or v-type, contains over two hundred ninety- nine (299) square feet in area. Commercial - DELETE Flag, Official. A flag of the United State of America, or a flag of the State of Georgia or other governmental entity, or a flag officially adopted by the person, institution, organization, or corporation occupying a property. Non Commercial DELETE   28 – B- 3 Reader Board or Message Board. A sign or portion of a sign on which the message or copy changes automatically on a lamp bank or through mechanical means. Also known as a Commercial Electronic Variable Message Sign. Sign – A sign, single face, double face, or v-type, which directs attention to one or more businesses, commodities, services, or entertainments. Sign, Abandoned. A sign which was properly permitted and erected on property in conjunction with a particular use which use has been discontinued for a period of 30 days or more; or a permitted temporary sign for which the permit has expired. Sign, Addressing – A fixed freestanding or wall mounted sign that purposely seeks to identify the unique combination of numbers or letters given to a primary structure or unit on a parcel. Sign, Awning. A sign located on an awning, which is a roof-like cover providing protection from the weather placed over or extending from or above any window, door or other entrance to a building. Sign, Building Mounted. A sign painted onto or attached to a building, canopy, awning, marquee or mechanical equipment located outside a building. Sign, Canopy. A sign located on a canopy, which is a permanent roof-like structure providing protection against the weather whether attached to or detached from a building. Sign Enforcement Officer. An employee of the Augusta Planning and Development Department who is responsible for enforcement of the provisions of this Section and is empowered to issue citations, remove certain illegal signs, and take other actions consistent with this Section. Sign, Flashing – Any sign which has intermittent or changing lighting or illumination of a duration less than thirty (30) seconds shall be deemed a flashing sign. Sign, Freestanding. A sign supported by a structure secured in the ground and which is wholly independent of any building, fence, vehicle, or other support. Sign, Illuminated – A sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light source, whether internally or externally lit, including but limited to neon signs and any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or outlines illuminated by artificial lighting. Sign, Mansard. A sign attached to the mansard section of a roof, which is the lower,   mostly vertical portion of a roof with two pitches, including a flat topped roof with a   mansard portion. Sign, Marquee. A sign attached to a marquee, which is a permanent roof-like structure projecting from and beyond a building wall at an entrance to a building or extending along and projecting beyond the building's wall and generally designed and constructed to provide protection against the weather. Sign, Monument. A freestanding sign which is mounted on or supported by a structure which is not a simple pole, pylon, or beam system. Sign, Non Conforming. A sign which was in existence and was constructed in compliance with the terms of any prior Ordinance but does not conform to the provisions of this Section.  Sign, Off-Premises. DELETE  Sign, On-Premises. DELETE Sign, Pole (or Pylon) Mounted. A freestanding sign which is mounted on or supported by a simple pole, pylon, or beam system. Sign, Political. A sign erected for the purpose of advertising a candidate or stating a position regarding an issue upon which the voters of the city shall vote. Sign, Portable. A sign which is designed to be transportable (with wheels; designed to be transported by trailer or wheels; mounted on a vehicle for advertising purposes, parked  28 – B- 4 and visible from the public right-of-way – except for normal business vehicles) and utilized at different locations and is not permanently affixed to the ground or to a building. Sign, Projecting. A sign attached to a building, canopy, awning or marquee and projecting outward therefrom in any direction a distance of two feet or more. Sign Surface Area. A measurement of the portion of a sign consisting of the actual copy, advertisement, or area devoted to identification or proclamation within the periphery of the smallest circle, triangle, rectangle, a combination of the foregoing. The sign surface area shall include any background material, trim, color, or other visual representations which attracts attention or are used to differentiate a sign from a building, structure, backdrop surface, or object upon which the sign is placed. Sign surface area shall not include the sign structures if no message, symbol, or any of the aforementioned sign face criteria are displayed on or designed as part of the sign structure. Sign surface area is the combined surface area of all signs on a lot; excluding the area of one face of all double- faced signs. Double-faced sign means a sign which has two display areas where one face is designed to be seen from one direction and the other face from another direction. Sign, Temporary. A sign or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, paper, plywood, sheet metal, or another light material which is designed to be used only temporarily, and which is not permanently mounted. Included in this category are banners, portable signs, retailers signs temporarily displayed such as special sale signs, special event signs, special product or service promotional signs, and similar signs. Sign, Traffic Directional A sign consisting of a simple message such as "in", "out", "parking" or something similar and an arrow, logo, but nothing more erected solely for the purpose of vehicular or pedestrian traffic direction or safety. Such sign shall have no advertising words or phrases. Sign, Window. Any sign or display which is painted on or applied to or projected upon or within the interior or exterior of a building glass area, including doors, which can be read from contiguous property or public right-of-way. 28-B-3 ADMINISTRATION. Administration of this Section shall be the responsibility of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. Administration shall consist of (A) application and sign plan, and (B) sign permit:  A. Application and Sign Plan. A sign permit may be issued upon the submission of an application and an approved sign plan, and payment of a fee. The application shall be on a form provided by Augusta, Georgia disclosing the sign owner, property owner, property occupant, address of the premises where the sign is to be located, together with the size of the proposed sign and a description of any other signs located on the premises, other signs for which a permit has been issued and remain outstanding, and for proposed signs yet to be permitted. In addition, other information shall be provided as indicated on the form, and other information needed pursuant to Sections 28-B-6 through 28-B-12 shall be provided. Every permit application shall be accompanied by a sign plan. A sign plan shall show the location of all existing, permitted but not erected, and proposed signs, all buildings, parking facilities, driveways, curbs and right-of-way lines immediately adjacent to the property. Also, single-family residential structures on adjoining properties shall be shown. The location of the sign(s) for which the permit applies shall be shown. In addition, the sign plan shall include drawings of all proposed signs showing dimensions, elevations, height, setbacks, materials and illumination sources, types, and  28 – B- 5 intensity. Sign plans shall be scaled drawings with accurate dimensions provided, where appropriate, to show conformance to this Section. Sign plans need not be prepared by licensed professionals, unless required elsewhere in this Section, but a certification of their accuracy shall be placed upon the plan. Sign plans shall be approved, approved with conditions, or denied by the Augusta Planning and Development Department. Action on a sign plan shall be taken within five working days of submission or it shall be deemed to have been approved. An approved sign plan, an application, and payment of a fee shall be required to obtain a sign permit. B. Sign Permit. Except as specified in Subsection 28-B-4 of this Section, a sign permit must be obtained from the Augusta Planning and Development Department prior to the erection, installation or material alteration of any sign. As used in the preceding sentence, material alteration shall mean any change in, a) the height of a sign, b) the surface area of a sign, c) the location of a sign, d) the supporting structure of a sign, and e) the illumination of a non-illuminated sign; such terms shall not include routine maintenance and repair or routine electrical work only. Permits may be obtained from the Augusta Planning and Development Department. Signs to be located in locally designated historic districts (Title 7, Chapter 4 of the Augusta, Georgia Code), shall be approved by the Historic Preservation Commission. A sign permit shall be accompanied by a decal which shall be affixed to the sign structure before it is erected. A Permit for a temporary sign shall be accompanied by a decal color coded to the calendar quarter in which the permit is valid. A decal for a permanent sign shall be valid and remain affixed to the sign throughout the life of the sign. A sign permit issued upon the basis of false or misleading information which is material to the application and granting of a permit, shall be immediately revoked and such sign shall be removed within 30 days. 28-B-4 EXEMPTIONS. The following are not considered to be signs for the purpose of administering and enforcing this Ordinance, and permits shall not be required. A. Official Flags. Except during celebration of officially recognized holidays, only one of each of the three categories of Official flags may be displayed on a lot. Official flags shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in area, nor be located on flagpoles more than forty (40) feet in height or that exceed the height limitation of the zoning district. Official flags shall be flown in accordance with protocol established by the Congress of the United States for the Stars and Stripes, as applicable. Any flag not meeting any one or more of these conditions will be considered a sign and will be subject to regulation as such. B. DELETE C. Government signs erected pursuant to and in the discharge of any government function. D. Signs or plates on residential structures bearing the name and address of the occupant; mailboxes, paperboxes, and similar uses customarily associated with residential structures. E. Historical markers, monuments or signs as recognized by local, state, or federal authorities. 28 – B- 6 F. Holiday decorations that do not convey a commercial message. G. Any sign or display which is located completely within an enclosed building and which is not visible from outside the building or beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel upon which it is located. H. DELETE I. Standard information sign. A sign with an area of not greater than four (4) square feet, with a sign face made for short term use (90 days or less), containing no reflecting elements, flags, or projections and which, when erect, stands at a height not greater than three (3) feet and is mounted on a stake or metal frame with thickness or diameter not greater than 1 ½ inches. J. Political signs when the sign area is 32 square feet or less, provided such signs are related to a specific local, state, or national election and provided such signs are removed within ten days after such election. Political signs larger than 32 square feet shall be regulated as temporary signs per Section 28-B-6. K. Grave markers, headstones, memorial statues or similar remembrances. L. Any sign approved by the Augusta Commission and incorporated into a bus shelter or bench. M. Addressing signs – where the property is situated in an A, R-1, or R-2 zone or contains a single-family residence are subject to the following conditions: (a) Name, address numbers and letters affixed to a structure which are less than four (4) inches in height and which otherwise conform to the Augusta Roads & Addressing Ordinance. (b) Overall size of the sign may not exceed 18” in height and 24” in width and may be no higher than three (3) feet high, as measured from the ground under the sign to the top of the sign. (c) Signs utilizing brick, stucco or metal for decorative structural support may be 6 inches higher and 6 inches wider on all sides surrounding the 18” x 24” sign, but in no case shall the sign be higher than three (3) feet high, as measured from the ground under the sign to the top of the sign. (d) No addressing signs may be internally illuminated in residential areas. (e) In no case shall addressing signs be placed in the public right-of-way or be placed in the clear-view easement of corner lots. N. Inside faces of scoreboards or walls on athletic fields. O. A living display on the ground of flowers or other plants which conveys a message. P. Banners when specifically approved as to size, form, location and duration by the Augusta Commission. Q. In B1, B2, LI, and HI zones, on every lot, or in the case of a shopping center or other multiple occupancy structure, on every building or storefront, one banner not exceeding (twenty-four) 24 square feet in area mounted flat against the building or projecting no more than two (2) feet therefrom, which is removed daily upon the close of business. R. For shopping centers or other multiple occupancy structures, one sandwich board type sign per business or occupant, not to exceed twelve (12) square feet in area nor five (5) feet in height, nor less than three (3) feet in height, may be located within (ten) 10 feet of the building occupied by each business or occupant of such shopping center or similar structure. Such sign must be removed daily upon the close of business. 28 – B- 7 S. On a lot which adjoins a public sidewalk where the main building is setback ten feet or less from the right-of-way line, a sandwich board type sign (not to exceed twelve square feet in area nor five (5) feet in height, nor be less than three (3) feet in height) placed within the sidewalk encroachment zone as identified in Section 3-8-ll of the City Code, shall be exempted. Such signs shall be subject to the permitting requirement set forth in Code Section 3-8-11. Such signs must be removed from the sidewalk daily after the close of business. 28-B-5 PROHIBITED SIGNS. The following types of signs are prohibited in Augusta, Georgia:  A. Pavement markings or sidewalk markings except those of a customary traffic control nature or otherwise approved by the City. B. Signs attached to trees, lampposts, parking meter posts, hydrants, traffic signs, rocks or other natural features, telephone or utility poles unless specifically approved as to size, form, location, and duration by the Augusta Commission. C. Signs mounted, painted, or otherwise displayed on the roofs of buildings. D. Banners, except that banners may be used as temporary signs. E. DELETE F. DELETE G. Any private or business sign, except as authorized by Augusta, Georgia, which restricts or appears to reserve any portion of public right-of-way or any public area for the exclusive use or private use of an individual, tenant, client, guest, or business. H. Signs which in any way imitate an official traffic sign or signal, or contains words or symbols displayed in a manner which might mislead or confuse drivers of vehicles, or signs which any manner may unduly confuse, distract, or divert the attention of drivers of vehicles. I. Signs which use flashing lights, strobe lights, blinking lights, or any type of pulsating or moving light, except moving message boards or reader boards. J. Any sign painted on or attached to a vehicle and used as a stationary sign, where said vehicle is: 1. not titled or displaying a current license tag, or 2. located in a front yard per this Ordinance K. Any sign which obstructs free ingress to or egress from a required door, window, fire escape, or other exitway. 28-B-6 TEMPORARY SIGNS. One temporary sign per street frontage may be located on a lot, parcel or tract which is not occupied by a shopping center of similar multiple occupancy structure in a B1, B2, LI, or HI zone. Except for those signs which are exempted under Section 28-B-4 of this Ordinance, there shall be no temporary signs within shopping centers or similar multiple occupancy structures in a B1, B2, LI, or HI zone. A temporary sign that is not exempted by 28-B-4 may be located on property for a maximum of thirty (30) days per calendar quarter, either thirty (30) consecutive days or for three (3) ten (10) day periods. A permit shall be acquired for a temporary sign, and a decal color-coded to the calendar quarter shall be affixed to the temporary sign before it is erected. The temporary sign shall be removed when the decal expires. If an applicant chooses to display a sign for three consecutive ten-day periods then such must or shall be noted on the application for a permit. 28 – B- 8 Using three (3) ten-day periods will require three inspections. The setbacks and height requirement for permanent signs shall apply to temporary signs. Temporary signs shall not exceed forty (40) square feet in area (1 side). Temporary signs shall not be placed or located in parking spaces and shall not be an obstruction for sight distance. A sign having less than six (6) square feet shall be exempted from permitting and the thirty (30)-day maximum, but such sign shall be the only temporary sign located on said property. 28-B-7 SIGNS IN AGRICULTURAL, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, TWO- FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES (A, R- 1, R-2, AND R3). The following signs shall be the only signs permitted in Agricultural and Residential zones: A. Entrance Signs For Approved Subdivisions. One subdivision entrance sign per entrance is allowed for residential subdivisions. Such signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area or six (6) feet in height and illuminated only by indirect incandescent lighting. The location of such sign shall not adversely affect traffic safety and the location shall be approved by the Traffic Engineer. B. Entrance Signs For Apartment or Condominium Complexes With More Than Ten Units in Two-family and Multiple-family Residential Zones. One sign per street front. Such sign shall not exceed 24 square feet in area or six (6) feet in height and illuminated only by indirect incandescent lighting. An illuminated sign must be located at least 100 feet from the nearest existing single-family home. The location of such sign shall not adversely affect traffic flow and shall be approved by the Traffic Engineer. C. Signs for Uses Permitted by Special Exception in Sections 15-18 and 26. When located in Agricultural or Residential zones, signs shall be prohibited in association with the following uses: family day care homes, family personal care homes, group personal care homes, transitional housing and home occupations. When located in any other zone, these uses shall conform to the Regulations for that zoning classification. When located in Agricultural or Residential zones, the following uses may have one non illuminated sign per street front which shall not exceed six square feet in area or five feet in height: lodging houses or tourist houses, fraternity or sorority houses, congregate personal care homes, and adult day care facilities. When located in any other zone, these uses shall conform to the Regulations for that zoning classification. The following uses may have one sign per street front in an Agricultural or a Residential zone; church, private school, hospital (public or private), cemetery, nursing home, funeral home, inert landfill, sanitary landfill, or club per Section 26-1. Such signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area or six (6) feet in height. An illuminated sign must be located at least 100 feet from the nearest existing single- family home and may be illuminated only by indirect incandescent lighting. When located in any other zone these uses shall conform to the Regulations for that zoning classification. All signs provided for in this Subsection shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet from a public right-of-way line or fifteen (15) feet from any curb or edge of pavement. D. Delete    E.  Addressing signs – subject to the conditions outlined in Section 28-B-4. 28 – B- 9  28-B-8 FREESTANDING SIGNS IN PROFESSIONAL, COMMERCIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES. A. Number of Signs. In P-1, B-1, B-2, LI or HI zones: One freestanding-sign, excluding billboards, per street frontage (must be oriented toward the street frontage), plus one for each 300 feet of street frontage or plus one for each ten (10) businesses in a shopping center or similar multiple occupancy complex. Freestanding signs, including billboards, on the same property and on the same street frontage shall be at least 100 feet apart. B. Sign Surface Area. Sign Surface Area  Max Sign Surface Area Max Sign Surface Area near single-family residence or R-1 zone (on the same street) Max Sign Surface Area in PDR, National Register or historic districts P-1 zones 36 sq. ft. 24 sq. ft. w/n 200 ft. N/A B-1 zones 100 sq. ft. 50 sq. ft. w/n 100 ft. 35 sq. ft. B-2, LI, HI zones 200 sq. ft. 50 sq. ft. w/n 100 ft. 50 sq. ft. Note(s): * Planned Development Riverfront Zone (PDR). * B-2, LI, or HI zones the maximum surface area figures do not include billboards. Freestanding signs may be either monument (completely enclosed base) or pylon (pole) supported. There shall be no limitation on the size of a simple pole or beam support system. For a monument sign, the supporting structure of the sign shall not be included in calculating the area of the sign permitted by this Ordinance; provided, however, that the supporting structure shall not exceed 50% of the total combined area of the sign and supporting structure. To encourage design excellence and enhance the aesthetic quality of development, the minimum freestanding sign surface area set forth above may be increased in all cases as provided herein. A separate bonus may be granted for each of the criteria, but in no case may the total bonus exceed 45%. Bonus provisions shall not apply to billboards or signs that are located within the Planned Development Riverfront Zone (PDR) or in National Register or locally designated historic districts (Title 7, Chapter 4 of the Augusta, Georgia Code). 1) 10% bonus when the sign is constructed of solid wood and the design is compatible with the style, texture, and color scheme of the structure(s) on the site; 2) 10% bonus when an area around the base of the sign is at least 4 times the area of the sign surface and the area around the base of the sign is covered by a landscaped planter; 3) 10% bonus if the sign is unlighted;  28 – B- 10 4) 25% bonus where a proposed sign would replace an existing sign that is 100% larger than the current Ordinance would permit, where the proposed sign location would not be within 100 feet of a single family residence or zone, and where the proposed sign would be the only freestanding sign on the property; 5) 25% bonus if the lot qualifies for more than 1 freestanding sign but only 1 sign is erected, if the proposed sign location would not be within 100 feet of a single family residence or zone; 6) 25% bonus if the proposed sign location is more than 100 feet from any existing or proposed public street or highway right-of-way, the proposed sign is the only freestanding sign on the property, and the proposed sign location would not be within 100 feet of a single family residence or zone. C. Height. Height  Max Height Max Height near single-family residence or R-1 zone (on the same street) P-1 zones 6 ft. 4 ft. w/n 200 ft. B-1 zones 20 ft. N/a B-2, LI, HI zones 30 ft. N/a   Note(s):  * The maximum height of the sign shall be measured from the elevation of the   adjoining road grade or from the base of the sign, whichever is higher. D. DELETE E. Setback. No part of any freestanding sign may be closer than ten feet from any public right-of-way line or fifteen feet from any curb or edge of pavement whichever is greater. No freestanding sign may be located closer than 50 feet from a single-family residence or an R-zone boundary nor within 10 feet of any property line. No sign shall be located so as to inhibit the visibility of motorists entering or leaving a public road. F. Clearance. Adequate sign clearance shall be provided to assure that vehicular and pedestrian traffic movements are not adversely affected. Minimum clearance of pole mounted signs shall be no less than 10 feet above pedestrian ways and not less than 15 feet above areas utilized by motor vehicles. G. Traffic Directional Signs. The area, height, and setback limitations at Sections 28-B-8-B to 28-B-8-E shall not apply to on-site entrance, exit, or other traffic directional signs, provided that no such directional sign shall exceed 30 inches in height nor more than 4 square feet in area. There shall not be more than two traffic directional signs per driveway entering or exiting the street frontage. Such signs shall be set back at least 10 feet from any street curb or edge of pavement but not on any public right-of-way. H. Message Boards and Reader Boards. Shall be permitted in B-1, B-2, LI and HI zones. They shall count toward the maximum permitted freestanding signage set forth in Sections 28-B-8-B and 28-B-8-D.   28 – B- 11 I. Freestanding Outdoor Drive Through Menu Boards. If not visible from a street right-of-way, menu boards shall not count toward the total freestanding signage permitted. If visible from a street right-of-way, then such signs will be considered to be regulated freestanding signs. J. Illumination. Illumination  Flashing signs or message board or reader signs Illumination not allowed near a single- family residence (on the same street) National Register or historic districts P-1 zones Not Allowed 100 ft. Not Allowed B-1 zones Allowed 100 ft. Allowed B-2, LI, HI zones Allowed 100 ft. Allowed   Note(s): * Illumination shall be oriented away from residential areas to any extent possible. * P-1 zones do not allow internally illuminated signs within one hundred (100 ft.) of a single- family residence or R-1 zone. K. Code Conformance. All signs for which a building permit is required shall be constructed and maintained in conformance with City building and electrical codes. Plans for all freestanding signs 30 feet or higher, or greater than 150 square feet, shall be certified as to conformance with all structural and wind- load resistive standards of the Building Code by a structural engineer registered in the State of Georgia, or be prepared using standard drawings prepared by a structural engineer or other qualified professional meeting or exceeding all requirements of the Building Code. Freestanding signage that does not require an engineer's seal must include supporting foundation calculations. All freestanding signage requires a foundation inspection. Neon exposed or attached to a structure requires a final inspection. All signage must have a disconnect switch located at the signage. All signs involving internal lights or other electrical devices or circuits shall display a label certifying that all equipment or products are approved by one of the organizations currently recognized by OSHA as “Nationally Recognized Testing laboratories (NRTL)’. All signs, together with their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in good repair and, unless constructed of galvanized or non-corroding metal, shall be given a protective coating as necessary to maintain a clean appearance and safe condition. 28-B-9 BUILDING MOUNTED SIGNS IN PROFESSIONAL, COMMERCIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES. A. Number and area of signs permitted. 28 – B- 12  Sign Surface Area Number of signs per attached / detached buildings Max Sign Surface Area Wavier of freestanding signs on premises P-1 zones 1 36 sq. ft. 25 percent B-1 zones Unlimited 1 sq. ft. of sign surface area per linear foot 25 percent B-2, LI, HI zones Unlimited 2 sq. ft. of sign surface area per linear foot 25 percent     Note(s):     *Building mounted signs shall not extend above the roofline of the portion of       the building where it is mounted. * The maximum sign area is B-1, B-2, LI, and HI zones is measured by surface   area per linear foot of width of the building, parallel to the street. * For commercial and industrial zones, the maximum surface area of building   mounted signs is increased by 25 percent if the property owner signs an  agreement waiving all rights to future freestanding signs on the entire      property. In commercial or industrial zones, the number of building attached signs shall not be limited. The maximum area in B-1 (Neighborhood Business) zones shall be one square foot of sign surface area per linear foot of building width parallel to the street, or in the case of attached buildings, shopping centers or other multiple occupancy complexes, per individual front facade. In B-2 (General Business) zones, LI (Light Industrial) zones, and HI (Heavy Industrial Zones) the maximum area shall be 2 square feet of sign surface area per linear foot of building width. If any premises is entitled to use freestanding signs pursuant to Section 28-B-8 but chooses not to do so and signs an agreement waiving all rights to future freestanding signs, then the maximum permitted building mounted signs surface area may be increased by 25 percent. This bonus provision may only be applied to attached buildings, shopping centers, and other multiple occupancy complexes if there is no freestanding sign on the entire property, and an agreement is executed whereby future freestanding sign rights would be waived on the entire property. Building attached signage in B-2, LI, and HI zones may only be placed upon the front of a building facing the street upon which the area calculation is based. B. Canopy, Marquee, Mansard, and Awning Mounted Signs. Building mounted signs may be placed flat against a building or on canopies, marquees, or mansard portions of roofs. Regardless of where such signs are located they shall be counted toward the maximum building mounted sign surface area that may be placed on the facade upon which such signs are located or project from. 28 – B- 13 Such signs shall be affixed flat to the surface of a canopy, marquee, or mansard or project no more than three inches therefrom, and they shall not extend vertically above a canopy, marquee, or mansard. Awning signs must be painted or printed directly on the awning and they shall also count toward the maximum building mounted sign surface area that may be placed on the facade upon which they are located or project from. C. Projecting Signs. Building attached signage may not project more than two feet from the building wall upon which it is attached except for canopy, marquee, or awning mounted signs. D. Window Signs. Window signs shall not be permitted in Professional zones. In B-1, B-2, LI, and HI zones, window signs may be permitted, but they may not occupy more than 20 percent of the area of any window. In the Planned Development Riverfront Zone (PDR) or National Register or locally designated historic districts (Title 7, Chapter 4 of the Augusta, Georgia Code), no more than two windows in any structure may be used for signs. E. Illumination. Building mounted signs in P-1 zones shall be non-illuminated. In B-1, B-2, LI, and HI zones, signs on the same side of a street or across a street from a single-family residence which is within 100 feet of the proposed sign location shall be non illuminated. Otherwise, signs in B-1, B-2, LI, and HI zones may be illuminated. F. Code Conformance. All signs for which a building permit is required shall be conducted and maintained in conformance with City building and electrical codes. All neon applications shall require a final inspection. All signage shall have a disconnect switch located on the signage. All signs involving illumination or other electrical devices or circuits shall display a label certifying it as meeting standards of the Underwriters Laboratories. All signs shall be kept in good repair. 28-B-10 BILLBOARDS  A. Location. Billboards may be located only in B-2 (General Business), LI (Light Industrial), or HI (Heavy Industrial) zones in accordance with other provisions of this Section, except in areas and sites which would not be consistent with the desired overall character of the City and the information needs of tourists, businesses, and residents. Billboards are prohibited within the following areas and sites:  Washington Road from the Calhoun Expressway to River Ridge Road, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  Calhoun Expressway, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  Gordon Highway from Bobby Jones Expressway to 1000 feet past Gate 1 at Fort Gordon (at Dyess Parkway), 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; (f) Doug Barnard Parkway from Gordon Highway to 1000 feet past Tobacco Road, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; (g) Bobby Jones Expressway from Doug Barnard Parkway to the Savannah River, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; (h) Jimmy Dyess Parkway, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; (i) Riverwatch Parkway, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; (j) Berckman Road from Rae's Creek to Washington Road, 500 feet from the right-of-way line;   28 – B- 14 (k) Wheeler Road from Bransford Road to Columbia County, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  Jackson Road from Wrightsboro Road to Wheeler Road, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  Walton Way Extension from Wheeler Road to Pleasant Home Road, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  Davis Road from Pleasant Home Road to Columbia County, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  Pleasant Home Road from Washington Road to Walton Way Extension, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  Wrightsboro Road from Barton Chapel Road to Columbia County, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  Windsor Spring Road from old Louisville Road to Hephzibah City limits, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  Tobacco Road, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line;  All national register historic districts and all locally designated historic districts under Title 7, Chapter 4 of the Augusta-Richmond County Code.  The Planned Development Riverfront District (Sec. 25 - A)  St. Sebastian Way from Walton Way to Reynolds Street, 500 feet from the right-of-way line.  Other areas and sites which may be designated by amendment to the text of this Ordinance. B. Separation from single-family residential zone boundaries or uses. Billboards shall not be located within 100 feet of any single-family residential zone boundary or the property line of a parcel occupied by a single-family residence. C. Setback. The setback requirements for billboards shall be the same as the setback requirements for principal structures. D. Spacing between billboards. There shall be no more than one (1) billboard for each seven hundred and fifty (750) feet of frontage on each side of any roadway. Any billboards located within five hundred (500) feet of the right-of-way line of the subject roadway shall be considered to be on the roadway, regardless of whether the sign faces or is oriented toward the subject roadway or toward another roadway, and regardless of whether or not there are intersecting streets. No billboard shall be located less than three hundred (300) feet from any other billboards in any direction. Billboards located within six hundred and sixty (660) feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way of an Interstate Highway must be permitted by the Georgia Department of Transportation. For purposes of this Ordinance, any billboard located in this area shall be considered to be a part of the Interstate Highway System regardless of whether the sign faces the Interstate Highway or is oriented toward the Interstate Highway or toward another roadway, and regardless of whether or not there are intersecting streets. 28 – B- 15 No billboards shall be located on roadways designated as part of the Interstate Highway System within five hundred (500) feet of an interchange, intersection grade, or safety rest area. The foregoing 500 foot zone shall be measured along the Interstate Highway from the point at which the pavement commences or ceases to widen at exits from or entrances to the main traveled way. E. Height. No billboards shall exceed a height of sixty (60) feet from ground level measured from the elevation of the adjoining road grade or from the base of the sign, whichever is higher. F. Area. The maximum area of a billboard’s face shall be three hundred (300) square feet on two lane roadways and six hundred seventy-two (672) square feet on highways with more than two lanes, plus temporary embellishments not exceeding twenty percent (20%) of the permanent sign area. Only one (1) sign face facing traffic moving in one direction shall be permitted on a billboard. G. State and Local approval required: For routes designated as part of the National   Highway System pursuant to Title 23 USC Section 103, approval by both the City   and the Georgia Department of Transportation shall be required in order to erect or  modify a billboard. This shall apply to all State routes, the following streets and roads  that are part of the National Highway System, and any other streets and roads   subsequently added to that system:  Windsor Spring Road (Peach Orchard Road to Tobacco Road) Wrightsboro Road (R. A. Dent Boulevard to Columbia County boundary line) Tobacco Road (Columbia County boundary line to GA 56)    H. Code Conformance. All signs for which a building permit is required shall be constructed and maintained in conformance with City building and electrical codes. Plans for all freestanding signs 30 feet or higher, or greater than 150 square feet, shall be certified as to conformance with all structural and wind-load resistive standards of the Building Code by a structural engineer registered in the State of Georgia, or be prepared using standard drawings prepared by a structural engineer or other qualified professional meeting or exceeding all requirements of the Building Code. Freestanding signage that does not require an engineer's seal must include supporting foundation calculations. All freestanding signage requires a foundation inspection. Neon exposed or attached to a structure requires a final inspection. All signage must have a disconnect switch located at the signage. All signs involving internal lights or other electrical devices or circuits shall display a label certifying that all equipment or products are approved by one of the organizations currently recognized by OSHA as “Nationally Recognized Testing laboratories (NRTL)’. All signs, together with their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in good repair and, unless constructed of galvanized or non- corroding metal, shall be given a protective coating as necessary to maintain a clean appearance and safe condition. I. Site Plan Required. Every permit application for a proposed billboard or for any repair or replacement of an existing billboard shall be accompanied  28 – B- 16 by a site plan prepared by a registered surveyor. The site plan shall show the proposed location for the subject sign, the distance of the proposed or existing billboard to the nearest billboards on the same side of the roadway, the distance to the nearest billboards on the opposite side of the roadway, and also the distance to any other structures on the property where the new sign is to be located. In the event of repair or replacement, the distance to existing structures on the property shall be shown. The site plan shall be prepared and stamped by a registered land surveyor. The surveyor shall be required to enter the correct map and parcel number and complete address for the property for which the permit application is being submitted. The site plan shall be approved by the Augusta Planning and Development Department. Once approved, the site plan shall be in effect for two years except that an approved plan may be rescinded at the request of the party who presented the plan for approval. An approved plan cannot be renewed or extended beyond two years. After a site plan has been approved, no other plans shall be considered that would conflict with the subject plan until two years have expired, or the approval has been properly rescinded. 28-B-11 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to ratify or approve the erection and/or maintenance of any sign which was erected in violation of any prior Ordinance, and any sign so erected shall be subject to removal as provided in this Subsection. Signs that were in existence and were constructed in compliance with the terms of any prior Ordinance but do not conform to the provisions of this Section are hereby designated as legal nonconforming signs. Signs which become legal nonconforming uses as the result of this Section may continue under the general standards for nonconformity in Section 5. They may be maintained and repaired but they may not be enlarged, heightened, or illuminated (if not currently illuminated). All signs defined herein as temporary signs, attention getting devices, or banners must either be permitted as temporary signs. Non-conforming signs (permanent and temporary) not permitted as prescribed above, shall become illegal signs and the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall be authorized to issue citations and/or remove such non-permitted signs per Section 28-B-13. All illegal and nonconforming signs shall be removed from a tract or parcel before any additional signs may be permitted on the same tract or parcel. 28-B-12 ABANDONED SIGNS. Signs that conform to this Ordinance, or signs that are made non-conforming as a result of this Ordinance which subsequently become abandoned signs shall upon abandonment be covered with a weather resistant opaque material which blocks the total sign surface area (billboards are exempted). 90 Days after the abandonment of a legal non-conforming sign the permit for such sign shall automatically expire and all exposed parts of said sign shall be removed. The foregoing shall apply to all signs. 28-B-13 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES. Enforcement of this Section shall be the     responsibility of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. The Augusta Planning and Development Department shall make routine inspection of all signs, and he shall also respond to issues raised by the public and other  28 – B- 17 departments. Upon ascertaining a violation of the provisions of this Chapter, the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall cause to be served upon the offender, or to his agent, or upon the owner or his agent, or the occupant(s) of the premises a written notice to abate which shall: A. Describe the condition(s) constituting a violation, B. Demand that the violation be corrected or that the offending sign be removed, C. State that an inspection will be made no less than 10 days nor more than 30 days after the notice is issued and at such time, if the conditions which constitute the violation have not been abated, then a citation will be issued. If, after the notice has been given and upon an inspection the offending sign has not been removed, then the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall issue a citation, and if the offending sign is a temporary sign or banner then the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall remove such sign. If the offending sign is not a temporary sign, then the offending sign may be removed, or the offending condition may be corrected by the City at the expense of the offender and/or the owner and/or the occupant of the premises under direction of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. The City shall have a lien on the property upon which said sign is located to secure the amount expended for the abatement and all unpaid permit fees and delinquent charges due to such sign. Citations shall be forwarded to Magistrate Court for placement on the earliest possible docket. Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter or any person refusing to comply with any notice to abate or other notices issued by the Augusta Planning and Development Department within the time allowed by such notice upon conviction shall be guilty of misdemeanor. Each day is a separate violation. Each violation of this Chapter shall be deemed a separate offense and punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000) or by imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days, either or both in the discretion of the judge having jurisdiction. AMENDED AUGUST 2018 – SECTION 28-B-2, 28-B-4, 28-B-7 AMENDED JULY 2015 – SECTION 28-B-2; 28-B-8-(B); 28-8-(C); 28-B-8-(J); 28-B-9 AMENDED JUNE 2013 – SECTION 28-B-10 added (G) AMENDED APRIL 2013– SECTION 28-B-13 AMENDED JUNE 2012 – SECTION 28-B-8-B AMENDED IN ITS ENTIRETY – DECEMBER 2011 AMENDED MAY 2011 - SECTION 28-B-8 (K) AMENDED NOVEMBER 2010– SECTION 28-B-10 (A)    28 – C- 0                  28 – C- 1 SECTION 28 C  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT  28-C-1 REFERENCE TO THE CITY CODE. This section relates to the Title 6 Chapter 1 of the Augusta, Georgia Code entitled "Adult Entertainment." This Code Section is included in part in the Zoning Ordinance as it relates to locations, or zoning districts and therefore to the extent that it relates to such plans, policies and zoning procedures must be followed. 28-C-2 DEFINITIONS. The following terms used in this Section defining adult entertainment establishments shall have the meanings indicated below:  (a) Adult bookstore. An establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section comprising five (5) percent or more of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials or five (5) percent or more of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. (b) Adult dancing establishment. A business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas. (c) Adult motion picture theater. An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein. (d) Adult mini-motion picture theater. An enclosed building with a capacity of less than fifty (50) persons used for commercially presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein. (e) Adult motion picture arcade. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coins or slug operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. (f) Adult video store. An establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, video tapes or movies or other reproductions,  28 – C- 2 whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five (5) percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale of display of such material or which derives more than five (5) percent of its net sales from videos which are characterized or distinguished by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. (g) Erotic dance establishment. A nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis or specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. (h) Escort bureau; introduction services. Any business, agency or persons who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward, or profit, furnish or offer to furnish names of persons, or who introduce, furnish or arrange for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters. (i) Good moral character. A person is of good moral character according to this chapter if that person has not been convicted of a felony involving serious sexual misconduct, or a crime not a felony if it involves serious sexual misconduct, in the past five (5) years. Conviction shall include pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeiture when charged with such crime. (j) Reserved. (k) Reserved. (l) Minor. For the purposes of this Chapter, any person who has not attained the age of eighteen (18) years. (m) Permitted premises. The business location for which a permit and a Business Tax Certificate has been issued to operate an adult entertainment establishment. (n) Specified sexual activities. Shall include any of the following:  (1) Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship in any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty; or   28 – C- 3 (2) Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or turmescence; or  (3) Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or masturbation; or  (4) Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breast; or  (5) Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating of the infliction of pain; or  (6) Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by human being; or  (7) Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation. (o) Specified anatomical areas. Shall include any of the following: (1) Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; buttock; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or  (2) Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered. 28-C-3 LOCATION. No adult entertainment establishments shall be located in any zone other than one designated as "LI" Light Industrial or "HI" Heavy Industrial under the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance for Richmond County, as incorporated in the Augusta-Richmond County Code, Title 8, Chapter 5. In addition, no adult entertainment establishment or use restricted hereunder shall be located;  (a) within 1,000 feet of:  (1) A church or place of religious worship;  (2) A public or private elementary or secondary school;  (3) A child care facility;  (4) A boundary of a residential district as defined in the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. (5) A public park;  (6) A cemetery;   28 – C- 4 (7) The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined in the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance;  (8) Another sexually oriented business which does not have a common entrance with an already licensed or exempted sexually oriented business; or  (9) A governmental building or site, which shall be defined as all public buildings, parks, and recreational areas owned, operated or occupied by Augusta. (10) Another sexually oriented business. (11) Within the parameters of an area designated as an Augusta gateway/corridor in the Corridor/Gateway Action Plan (2000), as presently existing or hereafter modified, adopted by the Augusta Commission and on file in the office of the Clerk of the Commission. Gateways and Corridors are defined as follows:  a. Gordon Highway/Doug Barnard Parkway Gateway - All property located within 1000 feet of the intersection of the centerlines of these roadways; b. I-20/Riverwatch Parkway Gateway - All property located within 2000 feet of the intersection of the centerlines of these roadways; and c. Peach Orchard Road/Gordon Highway Corridor - All property located within 1000 feet of the centerline of the following roadways: Peach Orchard Road from Tobacco Road to Gordon Highway, and Gordon Highway from Peach Orchard Road to Walton Way. (b) A person commits an offense if he causes or permits the operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented business in the same building, structure, or its portion, or the increase of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or its portion, containing another sexually oriented business. (c) For the purposes of subsection (a)(1) through (9) of this section, measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of a church or place of religious worship, or public or private elementary or secondary school, or to the nearest boundary of an affected public park, a cemetery, residential district or residential lot. (d) For purposes of subsection (c) (10) of this section, the distance between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located. (e) Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating as of January 1, 1996 that is in violation of subsections (a), (b) or (c) of this section shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Such use will be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed one year unless sooner terminated for any such reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If two or more sexually oriented businesses are  28 – C- 5 within 1,000 feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was first established and continually operating at a particular location is the conforming use and the later established business is nonconforming. (f) A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church or place of religious worship, public or private elementary or secondary school, governmental building or site, cemetery, residential district or residential lot within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business. This subsection applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or has been revoked. 28-D - 1 SECTION 28 D  CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS   28-D-1 As Permitted Uses - Conservation subdivisions shall be permitted uses by right in the Agricultural (A) Zone and in the following single-family residential zones: R-1, R-1A, R-1B, and R-1C if no lot is less than 60% of the minimum lot size permitted in the Zoning Classification, subject to the requirements of this Chapter. 28-D-2 As Special Exceptions - Conservation subdivisions where one or more lots are 60% or less of the minimum lot size permitted in the Zoning Classification may be approved by Special Exception in the A, and R-1, R-1A, R-1B and R-1C Zones. Procedures for approving conservation subdivisions as Special Exceptions shall be as established in Section 26. Approval shall be granted on the basis of a specific plan and its consistency with the Comprehensive Plan, planning principles, and the general development pattern in the area. 28-D-3 The Planning Commission may grant variances from the requirements found at 28-4 through 28-12 if they are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, planning principles, and the general development pattern in the area. 28-D-4 Tract Size - The minimum size tract which can be developed as a conservation subdivision shall be 20 acres. 28-D-5 Greenspace Requirements - A minimum of 40% of the overall acreage of the tract  shall be permanently protected as greenspace. If property that could be developed under the present federal, state, and local statutes, rules, and regulations in the opinion of the Augusta Planning and Development Department makes up more than 50% of the proposed greenspace, then the minimum greenspace requirement is reduced to 30% of the overall acreage of the tract. This greenspace may be dedicated to the Federal, State, or local government for permanent protection as greenspace if a unit of government chooses to accept such donation. It may alternatively be dedicated to a homeowners association or to another entity (such as a land trust) for permanent protection subject to prior approval of a greenspace management plan by the City of Augusta. A greenspace management plan shall provide for the use, ownership, maintenance, and permanent protection of greenspace areas, and the allocation of responsibilities for maintenance and operation of greenspace and any facilities located thereon, including financial provisions for stewardship, maintenance, repairs and operation, and long term capital improvements. 28-D-6 Use of Greenspace Areas - Greenspace may be landscaped and or left with a natural     vegetative cover in which no roadways, parking areas, or improvements other than the     following may be located:   Recreational facilities specifically permitted by the Planning Commission.  Underground utilities.  Gazebo's, wildlife observation facilities, boat docks, and similar facilities.  Landscaped stormwater detention areas.  Landscaped easement for drainage access, and sewer or water lines. 28-D - 2  Other uses found to be compatible with the intent of this section by the Planning Commission. 28-D-7 Buffers - Where a conservation subdivision is contiguous to an single-family residential zone or single-family residential use that is not part of a conservation subdivision, a buffer strip with a minimum width of 30 feet shall be provided. If a lot in the conservation subdivision adjacent to the contiguous single-family residential zone or area is 80 percent or more of the minimum lot size required in the adjacent zone or area the buffer need not be provided adjacent to such lot. This buffer strip shall be part of the required greenspace and provided for in the greenspace management plan, and it shall conform to the standard for protection in Subsection 8- 4-11 (e)(9) of the Augusta-Richmond County Tree Ordinance. 28-D-8 Lots - The portion of a conservation subdivision that is not devoted to greenspace shall be developed as lots and the related streets, utilities, retention facilities, etc. There shall be no minimum lot size, but housing must be detached and the total number of lots shall not exceed the number of lots that would be permitted by the base zoning classification in the opinion of the Planning Commission. 28-D-9  Setbacks A) Front setbacks shall be as provided for in the R-1 zone, except that variances for lesser setbacks may be granted by the Planning Commission on an overall project basis depending on the nature of the proposal, the surrounding development pattern, the relationship to the Comprehensive Plan, site conditions, and general planning principles. B) Side Setbacks - the minimum side setback shall be five feet except that greater setbacks may be required to conform to fire codes. C) Rear Setbacks - the minimum rear setback is 25 feet, unless a lot is situated in such a way that the rear lot line is adjacent to a greenspace area, in which case the minimum rear setback is ten (10) feet. D) The setback for community recreational facilities shall be set by the Planning Commission on a case by case basis, but the minimum setback from any exterior property line shall be 30 feet. 28-D-10 Lot Coverage - The maximum lot coverage, including main buildings and other incidental structures shall be 50% per lot. 28-D-11 Building Height - shall be as provided for in Subsection 8-6 of this Ordinance. 28-D-12 Home Occupations - may be permitted pursuant to the provisions of Section 8-3 of this Ordinance. 28-D-13 Accessory Buildings - shall be permitted pursuant to the provisions to Section 8- 4 of this Ordinance. 28-D-14 TV Satellite Dishes - shall be permitted as accessory uses subject to the provisions of Section 8-5.1 of this Ordinance. Adopted – June 2003  28-D - 3   28-E - 1 SECTION 28-E RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS 28-E-1 Recreational vehicle parks may be established after the effective date of this section if they conform to the following regulations:  (a) Minimum Size - All recreational vehicle parks shall contain a minimum of one acres of land, and shall be located and dimensioned so as to facilitate efficient park design, use and management. Recreational vehicle parks may be located jointly on a lot with another commercial use. (b) Minimum number of spaces – Before a certificate of occupancy will be granted all recreational vehicle parks shall contain at least ten recreational vehicle spaces, fully completed and ready for occupancy. (c) Access to site – Direct vehicular access to a recreational vehicle park shall be provided from an abutting, paved public street. However, the entrance drive may be shared with another use to which the recreational vehicle park is accessory or secondary. (d) Site conditions and Improvements –  1. A recreational vehicle park site shall be such that the condition of the soil, groundwater level, drainage and topography do not create hazards to the property or to the health and safety of the occupants of the recreational vehicle park. 2. The recreational vehicle park and its features shall be designed and developed in harmony with the topography, shape of the site and existing site features, to protect the recreational vehicle park and adjoining properties from objectionable views, and to provide for the practical and efficient operation and maintenance of the recreational vehicle park and its facilities. 3. Any recreational vehicle park developed jointly with another commercial use shall be designed, located an developed so as to assure the adequate separation of the recreational vehicle park functions from those of the other commercial enterprise. (e) Internal Streets – All recreational vehicle parks shall contain a street system, properly adapted to the site’s topography, designed to provide convenient vehicular circulation within the recreational vehicle park and access to each recreational vehicle space. The following requirements shall apply to the development of a recreational vehicle park’s street system:  1. All recreational vehicle park streets shall be provided with a smooth, hard and dense surface, which shall be durable and well-drained under normal use and weather conditions. Street surfaces and drainage facilities shall, at all times, be maintained in a state of good repair. 28-E - 2 2. Recreational vehicle park streets shall a have surface width of 15 feet for one-way streets, and 22 feet for two-way streets. Where on-street parking is to permitted on either one-way or two-way streets, the surface width shall be increased by 8 feet to allow for parking on one side of the street only, and by 16 feet for parking on both sides of the street. 3. Street surface material shall be compacted gravel unless otherwise required by the Engineering Department. Written approval of the street system and surface material by the Engineering Department shall be required before a permit will be issued. 4. Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%), and curb radi shall not be less than 20 feet. (f) Water Supply System – Every recreational vehicle park shall provide an accessible, adequate and potable water supply. The following requirements shall apply to a recreational vehicle park’s water system:  1. The water system shall be such that it is capable of supplying at least 100 gallons of water, per day, to each recreational vehicle space. 2. The location, design and construction of a recreational vehicle park’s water supply and distribution system requires the written approval of the County health department or the Augusta Utilities Department before any permit will be issued. 3. The design and size of the water system shall be based on the maximum number of recreational vehicle spaces to be contained in the recreational vehicle park. (g) Sewage Disposal System – A safe and sanitary method of sewage collection and disposal shall be provided in all recreational vehicle parks. The location, design and construction of a recreational vehicle park’s sewerage requires the written approval of the Augusta Utilities Department before any permit will be issued. Sewerage facilities shall be provided by one of the following methods:  1. A park wide system may be employed and designed so that each recreational vehicle park space is provided with an individual connection to the sewerage system. In such cases, the system shall be of sufficient size to accommodate a sewage flow of at least 100 gallons per recreational vehicle space per day; or 2. Sanitary stations at the rate of one station per ten (10) recreational vehicle spaces to be contained in the park may be used in lieu of individual sewerage connections. Where sanitary stations are used, they shall be centrally located among the recreational vehicle spaces they are to serve, and shall have an individual capacity to accommodate sewage flow of 750 gallon, per day. Sanitary stations shall be well screened, equipped with a self-closing hatch and connected to an approved sewage disposal system. Sanitary stations shall not be located closer than 50 feet to any recreational vehicle spaces. 28-E - 3  (h) Refuse Collection System – Every recreational vehicle park shall contain adequate facilities for the collection and disposal of refuse and other such solid waste. The following requirements shall apply to a recreational vehicle park’s refuse collection system:  1. All refuse shall be stored in watertight, rodent-proof containers, which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any recreational vehicle space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly store all refuse. 2. Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such container stands shall be designed so as to prevent containers from being tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration. 3. All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least twice weekly. Where suitable collection service is not available from public or private agencies, the owner or operator of the recreational vehicle park shall provide such service. 4. Where public or private disposal service is not available, the owner or operator of the recreational vehicle park shall dispose of the refuse by transporting such refuse to a disposal site approved by the City. (i) Recreational Areas – Every recreational vehicle park shall contain a recreational area appropriately developed for both active and passive recreation. The following requirements shall apply to a recreational vehicle park’s recreational area:  1. At least eight percent (8%) of the gross land area of a recreational vehicle park, or 8,000 square feet, whichever is larger, shall be reserved, developed and maintained for recreational purposes. 2. No areas of a recreational vehicle park which are used for automobile parking, setback, service buildings, recreational vehicle spaces or other such function shall be counted as part of the required recreational area, except that recreational buildings may be included as part of the required acreage. 3. Recreational areas shall be located so as to be easily accessible for all recreational vehicle park tenants, but shall not be located in areas where traffic hazards may exist. Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation   Area  (j) Restroom and Bathing Facilities –  1. Every recreational vehicle park shall provide on-site toilet and bathing facilities for the exclusive use of the tenants of the recreational vehicle park. 2. Such toilet and bathing facilities shall consist of at least one lavatory, one water closet and one shower stall, one of each provided and distinctly marked for each sex. 28-E - 4 3. Toilet and bathing facilities set forth in subsection 2 of this section shall be provided at the rate of one lavatory, one water closet and one shower stall for each sex for each ten (10) recreational vehicle spaces for occupancy in the recreational vehicle park. 4. Toilet and bathing facilities shall be connected to the recreational vehicle park’s water and sewerage systems. (k) Other Service Buildings – Service buildings such as management offices, storage facilities, coin operated laundries and indoor recreational buildings may be permitted in recreational vehicle parks subject to the following restrictions:  1. Such buildings and their parking areas shall not occupy more than five percent (5%) of the gross land area of the recreational vehicle park. 2. All service buildings shall be subordinate to the character and function of the recreational vehicle park, and shall be located, designed and intended to serve the exclusive service needs of the recreational vehicle park’s residents. 3. The Planning and Development Department shall have the authority to review and approve or disapprove the use and type of such service buildings that may be permitted within the recreational vehicle park. 4. All service buildings shall conform to any lot size, setback and buffer requirements as may be imposed by the Planning and Development Department. 5. All service buildings shall conform to any applicable building codes of the City. (l) Lot Size and Improvements – Every recreational vehicle park space within a recreational vehicle park shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the recreational vehicle to be placed thereon. The following minimum requirements shall apply to the development of each recreational vehicle space. 1. Every recreational vehicle space shall measure at least 20 feet wide by 50 feet long. 2. Every recreational vehicle space shall be provided with a parking stand or space for the recreational vehicle, and shall be composed of not less than six (6) inches of compacted gravel or other acceptable surface material. 3. Every recreational vehicle space shall an accessway constructed of compacted gravel or other acceptable material connecting an interior recreational vehicle park street with the mobile home stand. Such accessway shall be at least ten (10) feet wide and twenty (20) feet long. Vehicular parking may be permitted in the accessway. 4. Every recreational vehicle space shall be provided with a weatherproof electrical connection supplying 110 volts. 5. Every recreational vehicle space shall be provided with an individual connection (or service hydrant) to the recreational vehicle park’s water  28-E - 5 system; and, where centrally located sanitary stations as provided in Section (g)-2 are not furnished, the recreational vehicle space shall be provided with an individual sewerage connection as provided in Section (g)-1. 6. Every recreational vehicle space shall be provided with ample room to assure that a typical recreational vehicle measuring 8 feet wide by 30 feet long can be placed on the space and be located not closer than 20 feet to the centerline of any interior recreational vehicle park street; and closer than 35 feet to any recreational vehicle park service building, park property line or a public street right-of-way; and closer than 20 feet to any other recreational vehicle. (m) Supervision and Maintenance – The person to whom a permit for a recreational vehicle park is issued shall be responsible for providing adequate supervision of the recreational vehicle park to maintain the recreational vehicle park in full compliance with this article, and to keep the recreational vehicle park’s facilities and equipment in good repair, and in a clean an sanitary condition. (n) Tenant Register – The manager of the recreational vehicle park shall keep an up-to-date register of the recreational vehicle park’s occupants, and shall maintain such register of departed occupants for a period of three (3) years following their departure. The recreational vehicle park’s register shall be made available to any authorized person inspecting the recreational vehicle park, and shall contain the following information:  1. The names of all occupants quartered on each designated recreational vehicle space. 2. The description, make, model and year of all recreational vehicles and towing vehicles; and the state and license number of each. 3. The dates of arrival and departure of occupants of each recreational vehicle coach space. (o) Buffer – Where a recreational vehicle park adjoins a single family residential use or zone, a buffer strip as provided for at 8-4-11(e)(9) and 8-4-11(e)(10) of the Augusta Code shall be provided. (p) Length of Stay - A recreational vehicle shall not be used as a permanent residence. A recreation vehicle which will occupy a space or a lot for more than thirty (30) days must first secure a permit from the Augusta Planning and Development Department. All recreation vehicles must have all licenses appropriate to the state and county of origin, and in no case shall such vehicles be considered real property. Adopted April 2013  28-F - 1 SECTION 28-F PERSONAL CARE HOMES  28-F-1 PURPOSE This section is intended to an enhance the quality of living standards of Personal Care Homes in order to protect the health, safety, and integrity of the residents. This section includes regulatory requirements, home design standards, and parking requirements for Personal Care Homes occupied by six or fewer unrelated individuals who reside there and receive care. These include Family Personal Care Homes, both as a Permitted Use and as a Special Exception granted per Section 26-1 (h), as well as Special Use Permits granted for a Personal Care Home per Section 8-3 (c). Other applicable requirements for Personal Care Homes include: Georgia Department of Community Health (DCH) requirements, International Property Maintenance Code, and Fire Code compliance. 28-F-2 DEFINITIONS As used in this Section of the ordinance, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated: "Personal Care Home" - shall mean a building occupied by the property owners, or by a person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied by unrelated individuals who reside there and receive care and/or supervision from the property owners or persons in their employment. A personal care home shall provide care for elderly and/or handicapped persons. Personal Care Homes shall be classified as: Family Personal Care Homes, Group Personal Care Homes, and Congregate Personal Care Homes. “Personal Care Home Application” – The official application for a Personal Care Home, attached to a Special Use Permit application, a Special Exception application, or a permitted use zoning application. 28-F-3  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS A. Regulatory Compliance:  1. Personal Care Homes shall comply with all applicable city zoning, building, housing, and fire codes, and shall fully comply with the Georgia Department of Community Health (DCH) Rules and Regulations for Personal Care Homes (Section 111-8-62 of Georgia Code). Proof of compliance as a state registered Personal Care Home through DCH shall be submitted with a Personal Care Home Application. 2. A Personal Care Home Application must contain a scaled floor plan of the entire residence, including the following details: a. Bedroom, bathroom, and common room dimensions (must meet standards set forth in Section 28-B Home Design Requirements). b. Number of persons per bedroom. c. Rooms labeled (i.e. bedroom, closet, bathroom, dining room, kitchen, etc.). d. Label area for use by residents and visitors which affords privacy (i.e. an area where residents can meet alone with visitors). 28-F - 2 3. The maximum number of residents allowed for the Personal Care Home is dependent upon the specifications in the Home Design Requirements Section below, as well as Department of Community Health (DCH) requirements. If the maximum number of residents allowed is different between DCH requirements and Municipal Code requirements, the more stringent regulations will apply. 4. Applicant shall provide evidence annually to the Augusta Planning and Development Department that the facility continues to satisfy the conditions of approval set forth in this ordinance, as well as Department of Community Health (DCH) requirements. Evidence of compliance shall be submitted at least thirty (30) days before the renewal of a business license. During this time, the Augusta Planning and Development Department may inspect the home to ensure compliance with both the city ordinance and the business license requirements. Evidence submitted in the business license renewal process shall include: a. A copy of the most recent DCH inspection report and plan for correction b. A copy of the most current and accurate licensed residential care profile 5. Upon a Personal Care Home being approved, applicant shall make no alterations or additions to the primary structure for the purpose of increasing the number of individuals who reside there and receive care. 6. Any Special Exception or Special Use Permit issued pursuant to this Section shall terminate if the structure is devoted to a use other than a Personal Care Home. 7. If the structure fails to maintain compliance with all building, safety, health, and zoning requirements, the Special Exception or Special Use Permit shall be grounds for termination and the owner/operate shall thereafter be required to discontinue the use of the premises as a Personal Care Home. B. Home Design Requirements:  1. Common Areas i. Homes serving a person dependent upon a wheelchair or scooter for mobility must meet the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design set forth by the United States Department of Justice. ADA standard ramps within the front yard must include a landscape buffer around the perimeter of the ramp for the purpose of visual aesthetics. ii. The home must have handrails, grab bars, doorways and corridors which accommodate permitted mobility devices, such as walkers, motorized scooters, wheel chairs and crutches or canes as the residents require for their safety and allows the residents to move about the home freely. Homes serving individuals in wheelchairs must have 60 inches by 60 inches of turning radius  28-F - 3 in all areas meant to be accessible to them, including but not limited to the bedroom, kitchen, living room, entrances and exits, and at least one bathroom. iii. The living room must be large enough to accommodate individuals without overcrowding. Homes with three (3) to five (5) individuals who reside there and receive care must provide at least 120 square feet of living room space. Homes with six (6) individuals who reside there and receive care must provide at least 150 square feet of living room space. iv. The home must provide a comfortable dining area which is properly equipped and adequate in size for the number of individuals who reside there and receive care. The dining area shall be adequate to seat all individuals who reside there and receive care at the same meal seating. Homes with three (3) to five individuals who reside there and receive care must have at least 80 square feet allocated for a dining room. Homes with six (6) individuals who reside there and receive care must have at least 100 square feet allocated for a dining room. v. The home must provide a fenced and accessible outdoor space for individuals who reside there and receive care. 2. Bedrooms or Private Living Spaces  i. Bedrooms or private living spaces must have at least 100 square feet of usable floor space per individual who resides there and receives care. 3. Bathroom Facilities  i. At least one (1) functional toilet and lavatory must be provided for each four (4) occupants, and at least one bathing or showering facility must be provided for each (6) occupants. Occupants include persons who reside there and receive care, care providers, and other persons living in the home. ii. A home serving a person dependent upon a wheelchair or scooter for mobility must have at least one (1) bathroom that permits the person to use all bathroom fixtures easily and independently where able. The bathroom must meet the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design set forth by the United States Department of Justice. Home Design Spacing Requirements Summary Table Category Requirement Living Room 3-5 persons who reside and receive care = 120 square feet 6 persons who reside and receive care =  150 square feet Dining Room 3-5 persons who reside and receive care =  80 square feet 6 persons who reside and receive care =  100 square feet Bedroom or private living spaces Per person who resides and receives care = 100 square feet Functional toilet and lavatory Per 4 occupants* =         1 functional toilet Showering facility Per 6 occupants* =    1 bathing or showering facility  28-F - 4 *Includes persons who reside there and receive care, care providers, and other persons living in the home. 4. Off-Street Parking  i. Homes must meet the requirements for Off-Street Parking found in Section 4- 2 “Off-Street Parking Requirements for all Areas except Central Business District (CBD)” of this ordinance. A summary of example required parking spaces for Off-Street Parking is provided below. Off-Street Parking Requirements Summary Table Number of Residents Space Allocated to Residents On-site Provider Visitor Total Required Spaces 2 1 1 1 3 3 1 1 1 3 4 2 1 1 4 5 2 1 1 4 6 2 1 1 4                        Adopted: June 2015   29 - 1 SECTION 29  EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS  29-1 Public utilities and public services: The provisions of this Ordinance shall not be construed so as to limit or interfere with the construction, installation, operation and maintenance for public utility purposes, of water and gas pipes, mains and conduits, electric light and electric power transmission and distribution lines, telephone and telegraph lines, oil pipe lines or sewer mains, nor with incidental appurtenances such as relay boxes, etc. 29-2 Height: (a) DELETED. (b) Through lots one hundred fifty (150) feet or less in depth: The height of a building may be measured on such lots from the adjoining curb level on either street. (c) Through lots more than one hundred fifty (150) feet in depth: The height regulations and the basis of height measurements on such lots for the street permitting the greater height shall apply to a depth of not more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from the street. (d) Structures permitted above height limit: Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the building, fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, roof signs, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, wireless masts, water tanks, silos, gas containers, or similar structures may be erected above the height limits herein prescribed subject to other provisions of this Ordinance, but no penthouse nor roof structure or any space above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional enclosed space for residential, commercial, or industrial use. 29-3 Setbacks: (a) Yard regulations modified: Where the yard regulations cannot reasonably be complied with, or their application determined, on lots of peculiar shape, location, or topography, such regulations may be modified as determined by the Augusta, Georgia Board of Zoning Appeals. (b) DELETED. (c) When a lot adjoins only one lot having a main building (within twenty-five (25) feet of its side lot line) which projects beyond the established front setback line and has been so maintained since March 25, 1963, the front setback requirement on such lot may be the average of the front yard of the existing building and the required front setback, provided, however, the front yard of such lot shall not be less than ten (10) feet. (d) DELETED. (e) For the purpose of side yard regulations, semidetached and row dwellings with common walls will be considered as one building occupying one lot. (f) Front and side yards waived: The front and side yards may be waived for dwellings, hotels, and lodging or apartment houses erected above the ground floor of a building when said ground floor is designed and used exclusively for commercial purposes. 29 - 2  29-4 Projections into yards: (a) Porte-cocheres, carports: Such structures may be permitted over a driveway in a side yard, provided such structure is not more than one story in height and thirty (30) feet in length (including storage space), and is entirely open on at least two (2) sides except for the necessary supporting columns, provided, however, said structure does not extend within five (5) feet of the side lot line. (b) Eave or canopy: An eave, canopy, or other similar architectural feature may extend into any required yard not more than three (3) feet. (c) Open stairway and balcony: An open, unenclosed stairway or balcony, not covered by a roof or a canopy, may extend into a required front yard not more than three (3) feet. (d) Open porch: An open unenclosed porch, platform, or deck not covered by a roof or canopy, which does not extend above the level of the first floor of the building, may extend or project into any required yard not more than four (4) feet. 29-5 Minimum lot reduction for underground utilities: The minimum required lot area within an R-1 zoned subdivision may be reduced two percent (2%) when the subdivision is developed with all utilities underground. When such reduction occurs, a utility easement of one and one-half (1-1/2) feet shall be provided along the front property line. Amended June 2006, Section 29-4(b)  30 - 1 SECTION 30  BUILDING PERMITS AND SITE PLANS  30-1 Building Permit: Before a permit is issued for the erection, moving, alteration, enlargement, or occupancy of any building or structure or use of premises, the plans and intended use shall indicate conformity in all aspects to the provisions of this Ordinance. 30-2 Site Plan: A building permit under the provisions of the building code of Augusta, Georgia for the purpose of constructing or expanding a structure only be issued upon the presentation of, but not limited to, a survey or a site plan that has been approved by the staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. Such site plan or survey shall be drawn to scale, showing accurately the dimensions and location of the following: property lines, easements, utilities, structures, signs, off-street parking, driveways, retention facilities and any other information that may be necessary to the administration and/or enforcement of this Ordinance. Such site plan or survey shall be submitted by the Staff to all departments of Augusta and other entities that are deemed appropriate and they shall review and approve said site plan before it is approved by the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. 30-3 Interpretation of Ordinance: In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Ordinance, they shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of health, safety, welfare, morals, and convenience of the general public. The lot or yard areas shown on a survey or site plan as required by this Ordinance for a particular building shall not be diminished nor be included as part of the lot or yard areas of any other building. Amended – January 2017  31 - 1 SECTION 31 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY   31-1 A Certificate of Occupancy shall be required for any of the following: (a) Occupancy and use of a building hereafter erected or enlarged. (b) Change in use of an existing building to a different use. (c) Occupancy and use of vacant land except for the raising of crops. (d) Any change in nonconforming use. (e) After submitting plans and specifications to the Building Inspector and upon issuance of a building permit, the builders will have complied with this Ordinance for all purposes, provided said building is constructed in accordance with said plans and specifications. (f) No such occupancy, use or change of use shall take place until a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by the Augusta Planning and Development Department. 32 - 1 SECTION 32 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES   32-1 It shall be the duty of the Chief Building Official to enforce the provisions of this Ordinance in the manner and form and with the powers provided in the laws of the State and Ordinances of the Augusta Commission. 32-2 All commissions, boards, departments, officials, and employees of Augusta which are vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of this Ordinance and shall issue no permit or license for any use, building, or purpose if the same would be in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance. Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance shall be null and void. 32-3 The erection, construction, alteration, addition, conversion, moving or maintenance of any building or structure and the use of any land or building which is continued, operated, or maintained, contrary to any provisions of this Ordinance is hereby declared to be a violation of this Ordinance and unlawful. The Attorney of the Augusta Commission shall immediately, upon any such violation having been called to his attention, institute injunction, abatement, or any other appropriate action to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove violation. Such action may also be instituted by any property owner who may be damaged by any violation of this Ordinance. The remedy provided for herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law. 32-4 Any person or corporation whether as principal, agent, employee, or otherwise who violates any provision of this Ordinance shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500) and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days. Cases shall be tried in Magistrate's Court. 33 - 1 SECTION 33  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS  33-1 Authorization: Established by virtue of the Home Rule Provision of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983 and codified by an Ordinance of the Augusta Commission dated March 18, 1997. The Board of Zoning Appeals for the Augusta Commission shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Appeals Board". 33-2 Membership: The Appeals Board shall consist of ten (10) members each of whom shall reside in one of the ten districts of Augusta. 33-3 General Provisions: The Board of Zoning Appeals shall elect one (1) of its members as Chairman, who shall serve a one (1) year term or until a successor is elected. The Chairman may succeed himself. (a) The Chairman shall have the power to vote on matters before the Appeals Board     only when his vote will change the result. (b) The Appeals Board shall appoint a secretary who may be an official or employee    of either Augusta Commission or of the Augusta Planning and Development    Department. (c) Meetings of the Appeals Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at    such other times as the Appeals Board may determine. (d) The Chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and     compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. (e) The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of     each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such    fact, and shall keep records of its examinations filed in the office of the secretary     of the Appeals Board and shall be a public record. (l)  The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this section of  this Ordinance. 33-4 Procedure: Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved, or by any official, department head, board, or bureau of the Augusta Commission, affected by any decision of an administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Appeals Board, by filing with the Secretary of the Appeals Board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. (a) Action of Augusta Commission: (1) Upon notice by the Secretary of a filing of appeal, the official from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Appeals Board all papers constituting a record upon which the action appealed was taken. (2) An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of action appealed from, unless the official from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Appeals Board, after notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such a case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Appeals Board or by a court of record on application, on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown. 33 - 2 (b) Action of Appeals Board: Upon receipt of notice of appeal in a form prescribed by the Appeals Board, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall: (1) Fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it. (2) Publish once in a newspaper of general circulation in Augusta a "Notice of Public Hearing" on the appeal. Such notice shall be published at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing and shall indicate the time and place of the hearing and the nature of the appeal to be considered by the Appeals Board. (3) Send postal cards or letters to the property owners of record whose property lies within a 300-foot radius of the property subject to the appeal, giving notice of the time, place, and nature of the appeal. (4) Upon the Hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent, or attorney. 33-5 Powers of Appeals Board: (a) To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance adopted by the Augusta Commission pursuant to this Ordinance. (b) To hear and decide requests to place manufactured homes as second living units on properties for no longer than one (1) year, on the basis of hardship. New medical hardships and annual renewals are subject to the following requirements:  (1)  The living unit must be accessory to the primary residence which otherwise    lawfully exists. (2)  The manufactured home must be used exclusively to house a family member    or spouse of the primary resident. (3)  Recreational vehicles or RVs and travel trailers are not acceptable as living    units. (4)  A follow-up inspection by the Planning and Development Department will    be conducted within 60 days of the medical hardship approval to insure that    the secondary living unit meets the minimum requirements of the    International Property Maintenance Code and related codes and ordinances. The following will be required:  i. The manufactured home must be built to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) standards and inspected by the Planning and Development Department. In the event that living unit is a modular home, it must be approved by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA). ii. The manufactured home shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. Title 8, Chapter 2, Article 2, part 3, and be properly anchored and skirted. iii. All necessary improvements must be performed by a licensed contractor after the unit is placed. iv. The tax decal must be current and clearly displayed on the unit. v. The living unit shall be in good condition, and meet the following minimum space requirements:  33 - 3   Space Requirements Summary Table Category Minimum Requirement Living area (includes kitchen and dining room areas)  150 square feet (gross floor area)  Bedroom  One person 50 square feet (gross floor area) Two or more people 70 square feet for two people, plus 50 square feet for each additional person Hallways 28 inches measured from interior wall to opposing finished wall Toilet compartment 30 inches of unobstructed space Functional toilet and lavatory 1 functional toilet and lavatory Showering facility 1 functional bathing or showering facility  (3)  The authorized use may lawfully continue, and any permit issued shall remain valid, only so long as all of the conditions described in this section continue to exist. (c) To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of the Zoning Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions, literal enforcement of the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance will, in an individual case, result in an unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the Zoning Ordinance shall be preserved, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual cases of unnecessary hardship upon finding by the Appeals Board that: (1) There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography; and (2) The application of the Zoning Ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; and (3) Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and (4) Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of the Zoning Ordinance; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure which is prohibited by the Zoning Ordinance. 33 - 4 (d) To authorize the operation of certain businesses as home occupations pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Augusta Commission. (e) In exercising the above powers, the Appeals Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this section, reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination; and to that end, shall have all of the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct issuance of a permit. When a variance is granted that would require the issuance of a building permit, an individual granted a variance by the Appeals Board has a period of one year from the date of approval to obtain a building permit. Anyone that fails to obtain a building permit within the one year period forfeits the variance right previously granted. (f) An appeal that is denied by the Appeals Board cannot be reheard for a period of one year unless the Appeals Board unanimously grants this privilege. 33-6 Appeal from decision of Appeals Board: Any person or person severally or jointly aggrieved by any decision of the Appeals Board or with any official charged with the enforcement of any order, requirement, or decision of said Board may appeal said decision to the Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia. The procedure for said appeal shall be the same as an appeal to the Superior Court from any decision made by the Probate Court as provided by the laws of Georgia, except that said appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision of the Appeals Board or any official charged with the enforcement of any order, requirement, or decision in connection therewith; and upon failure to file said appeal within thirty (30) days, the decision of the Appeals Board shall be final. Amended: March 2016 – 33-5(b)  34 - 1 SECTION 34 ZONING MAPS  34-1 CONTENT. The official zoning maps of Augusta shall be a layer of the Geographic Information System which shall contain the boundaries of the various zoning districts of the City. The Official Zoning Maps as defined herein are hereby duly incorporated as an indispensable part of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. 34-2 RELATIONSHIP TO PREVIOUS MAPPING. The zoning classifications established by the adoption of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance on March 25, 1963, reconfirmed on November 15, 1983, and thereafter duly amended prior to the effective date of this amendment will be the zoning classification represented on the Official Maps as identified by this Amendment at its adoption. The zoning classification of properties in Augusta and the regulation of the uses of those properties shall not in any way be changed by this amendment. 34-3 LOCATION AND METHOD OF DISPLAY. The official zoning maps shall be available for inspection by the public at the office of the Augusta Planning and Development Department and at other locations at the discretion of the Planning Commission and they may be displayed either electronically or in a paper format. 34-4 PUBLIC INSPECTION PRIOR TO ADOPTION. The Official Zoning Maps were available for inspection by the public prior to adoption during the period of notice prescribed in O.C.G.A. 36-66, during the public hearing required by O.C.G.A. 36-66, and during the meetings of the Augusta, Georgia Commission at which time their incorporation into the Zoning Ordinance was considered. 34-5 RESPONSIBILITY. The safekeeping and maintenance of the Official zoning Maps shall be the responsibility of the Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. 35 - 1 SECTION 35 AMENDMENTS TO THIS ORDINANCE 35-1 Review of Proposed Amendments: This Ordinance, including the map or maps, may be amended from time to time, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by, or first submitted to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation. 35-2 Procedures for Public Hearing:  (a) The Planning Commission shall conduct, on behalf of the Augusta Commission, all public hearings on proposed amendments to this Ordinance and maps. (b) At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing, the Planning Commission shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the local government a notice of the hearing. The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearing. If a zoning decision of a local government is for the rezoning of property and the rezoning is initiated by a party other than the local government then:  (1) The notice shall include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property, and the proposed zoned classification of the property; and (2) A sign indicating the present zoning classification and the proposed zoning classification shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. (c) The Recommendations of the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the governing body having jurisdiction within thirty (30) days. If the Planning Commission fails to submit a report within the thirty-day period, it shall have deemed to approve the proposed amendment. 35-3 Application for Amendment: Each application to amend this Ordinance, including the map or maps, shall be filed with the Augusta Planning and Development Department and shall be in compliance with the following:  (a) A conference with the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall be held prior to submission of the application. (b) A statement from the owner of the property submitting the petition, or a statement from the owner of the property designating his representative in the petition, shall be furnished with the petition on a form supplied by the Augusta Planning and Development Department. (c) A properly prepared plat of the property showing distances and bearings of the boundaries and a tie to a known point shall be included with the petition. This can be waived by the Staff when the proposed rezoning involves complete parcel(s) under the Tax Assessors PIN scheme. (d) A letter from the owner or his authorized representative requesting the amendment, including a statement regarding the proposed use, address and  35 - 2 telephone number for correspondence, and any other information required elsewhere in this Ordinance, shall be included with the petition. (e) A fee which has been calculated by the City of Augusta as representative of the cost of processing an advertisement of the proposed amendment shall be paid at the time of application. 35-4 Staff Evaluation: The Staff, upon receipt of an application for an amendment to this Ordinance shall:  (a) Consult with other departments of the Augusta, Georgia to fully evaluate the impact of any zoning change upon public facilities and services including, but not limited to, drainage, traffic and related facilities: (b) Conduct a site review of the property and the surrounding area. (c) Study each application with reference to the balancing test established in Guhl v Holcomb Bridge Road Corporation and its compliance with the Comprehensive Plan. (d) Report its findings and recommendation to the Planning Commission, which report shall be a matter of public record. (e) The Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department report may recommend the applicant’s request be reduced in land area and /or recommend conditions of rezoning which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose of this Ordinance will be served. 35-5 Planning Commission Action: The Planning Commission shall review and make a recommendation of approval, denial, deferral, withdrawal without prejudice, or no recommendation on each application for which a public hearing is held in accordance with an Ordinance of the City Council of Augusta, Georgia and the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County, enacted April 1, 1983 and codified after consolidation of the governments as Article 8, Chapter 5 of the Augusta Code. The staff recommendations on applications shall be submitted to the Planning Commission prior to the public hearing. A report of the Planning Commission’s decision shall be submitted to the Augusta Commission. The action of the Planning Commission may recommend a reduction of the land area for which the request is made and/or recommend conditions of rezoning which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose of this Ordinance will be served. 35-6 Governing Body Action: The Augusta Commission shall, at a regular meeting, approve, deny or defer action on such application. The action of the Augusta Commission may recommend a reduction of the land area for which the application is made and/or recommend conditions of rezoning which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose of this Ordinance will be served. When such conditions are added to approval of an application, the Augusta Commission shall require that a Zoning Restriction Agreement be recorded with the Clerk of the Superior Court of Augusta Georgia. The cost of recording such agreement shall be borne by the applicant. 35-7 Reversionary Clause: The Planning Commission may submit information to the Augusta Commission having jurisdiction relative to property which has been rezoned for a period of eighteen (18) months from the date of approval, and for which no site plan or subdivision development plan approval or building permit has been obtained. The  35 - 3 Augusta Commission may then review such information and, if considered appropriate, initiate reversionary zoning procedures. Such reversionary actions shall proceed in accordance with the amendment provisions of this Ordinance. 35-8 If the zoning decision of a local government is for the rezoning of property and the amendment to the Zoning Ordinance to accomplish the rezoning is defeated by the local government, then the same property may not again be considered for rezoning until the expiration of at least six (6) months immediately following the defeat of the rezoning by the local government pursuant to O.C.G.A. 36-66-4-(c) (2012). 35-9 Land Adjacent to Fort Gordon Military Installation: Zoning proposals (including changes of zoning and special exceptions) involving land locating with 3,000 feet of the Fort Gordon Military Installation boundary shall be evaluated Pursuant to O.C.G.A. 36- 66.6. The Planning Commission, in conducting this evaluation shall request from the Fort Gordon Commander a written recommendation and supporting facts, and if provided, such information shall be considered and made part of the public record. The Planning Commission shall investigate and make a recommendation regarding the following:  (a) Whether the zoning proposal will permit a use that is suitable in view of the use of adjacent or nearby property within 3,000 feet of a military base, military installation, or military airport; (b) Whether the zoning proposal will adversely affect the existing use or usability of nearby property within 3,000 feet of a military base, military installation, or military airport; (c) Whether the property to be affected by the zoning proposal has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned; (d) Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will or could cause a safety concern with respect to excessive or burdensome use of existing street, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools due to the use of nearby property as a military base, military installation, or military airport; (e) Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policy and intent of the land use plan; and (f) Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use of the nearby property as a military base, military installation, or military airport which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal. 35-9.1 Halfway Houses and Drug Rehabilitation Centers: When a proposed zoning decision relates to or will allow the location or relocation of a halfway house, drug rehabilitation center, or other facility for treatment of drug dependency, a public hearing shall be held on the proposed action. Such public hearing shall be held at least six (6) months and not more than nine (9) months prior to the date of final action on the zoning decision. The hearing required by this subsection shall be in addition to any hearing required under subsection (a) of this Code section. The local government shall give notice of such hearing by:  (a) Posting notice on the affected premises in the manner prescribed by subsection (b) of this Code section; and  35 - 4 (b) Publishing in a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the local government a notice of the hearing at least 15 days and not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing. Both the posted notice and the published notice shall include a prominent statement that the proposed zoning decision relates to or will allow the location or relocation of a halfway house, drug rehabilitation center, or other facility for the treatment of drug dependency. The published notice shall be at least six (6) column inches in size and shall not be located in the classified advertising section of the newspaper. 35-9.2 Land adjacent to the Cities of Hephzibah and Blythe: When a rezoning or special exception is initiated by a property owner or by Augusta, Georgia affecting property located within 1,000 feet of either Hephzibah or Blythe, notice must be given to those local municipalities. Such notice shall be in the form of a certified letter sent within five (5) business days of the acceptance of an application to the appropriate municipality. The notice shall contain all relevant data and request a determination as to whether the proposed action would constitute an incompatible land use. If within ten (10) business days after receipt of this notice the appropriate municipality notifies Augusta-Richmond County by certified mail that the proposal could constitute an incompatible land use then Augusta, Georgia and the municipality must begin a negotiation process described in an agreement between Augusta, Georgia, Hephzibah, and Blythe dated June 30, 1998 known as the “Agreement to Resolve Land Use Classification Disputes”. 35-9.3 Land adjacent to the Augusta Canal: The Augusta Canal is a Regionally Important Resource (RIR) as identified by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs pursuant to the Georgia Planning Act of 1989. As such any request for a rezoning or special exception affecting property located within the Augusta Canal National Heritage Area is subject to a review process initiated through the Central Savannah River Area. (RDC). Amended 35-8 – April – 2013 Section amended in its entirety – 5-1-2007  35 - 1 SECTION 36 EFFECTIVE DATE   36-1 This Ordinance shall take effect on September 16, 1997. 37 - 1 SECTION 37 SEVERANCE CLAUSE   37-1 If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this Ordinance shall be ruled invalid or unconstitutional by any Court or competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect any other section, clause, provision, or portion of this Ordinance. 37 - 2 All Ordinances or parts of Ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance are hereby repealed. Done in Open meeting of the Augusta Commission under the Common Seal thereof this 16th day of September, 1997. Approved this     day of   September   , 2011       _____________________________   Mayor   Augusta, Georgia  ATTEST:             ________ (Witness)  i  THE CITY OF SARALAND LAND USE  AND  DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE    The City of Saraland 716 Highway 43 Saraland, Alabama 36571  Recommended by the City of Saraland, Planning Commission and Board of Adjustment  April 10, 2007   Adopted by the City of Saraland, City Council:  December 27, 2007     ii TABLE OF CONTENTS  SECTION A: LEGAL AND GENERAL INFORMATION     SECTION  ARTICLE I Purpose, Enactment, Short Title Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-1 Repeals and Enactment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-2 Short Title . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-3  ARTICLE II Legal Status Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-1 Jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-2 Conflict with Other Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-3 Validity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-4 Repeal of Regulations and Ordinances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-5 Disclaimer of Liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-6 Effective Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-7 Penalties and Remedies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-8  ARTICLE III Official Plans and Maps Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-1 Future Land Use Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-2 Official Zoning District Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-3 Amendments to the Zoning District Map. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-4 Files of Properties Rezoned, Variances, Subdivisions . . . . . . . 3-5  ARTICLE IV Adoption . . . . . . . . . ……….. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ……... 4-1  ARTICLE V Duties and Powers of the Planning Commission Authority. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-1  ARTICLE VI Procedures for the Transaction of Business Implementing Authority. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-1 Public Hearings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-2 Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-3 Meetings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-4 Agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-5 Quorum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-6  SECTION A: LEGAL AND GENERAL INFORMATION     SECTION  ARTICLE VI Procedures for the Transaction of Business Applications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-7 Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-8  iii Signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-9  ARTICLE VII Building Official Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7-1 Permits and Certificates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7-2 Continuance of Previously Issued Permits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7-3  ARTICLE VIII Definition of Terms Usage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-1 Words and Terms Defined . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-2  ARTICLE IX District Provisions Rules for Determining Boundaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-1 Nonconformance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-2 Blocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-3 Lots . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9-4 Flag Lots . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-5 Lots of Record . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-6 Substandard Lots of Record . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-7 Farm Land . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-8 Yards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9-9 One Principal Building per Lot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-10 Accessory Uses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 9-11 Accessory Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-12 Access to Public Streets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-13 Grandfather Clause . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 9-14  ARTICLE X    General Provisions Screen, Lighting, and Space . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-1 Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-2 Building Height . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-3 Height Exception . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-4 Fire Hazards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-5 Total Capacity of Flammable Materials Permitted . . . . . . . . 10-6 Water Pollution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-7 Compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-8  SECTION A: LEGAL AND GENERAL INFORMATION     SECTION  ARTICLE XI Minimum Standards and Required Improvements Suitability of Land . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-1 Land Subject to Flooding. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-2 Conformance with Existing Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-3 Penalties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-4 Exceptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 11-5 Amendments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-6  iv Minimum Street Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-7 Improvements Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-8 Issuance of Site Disturbance Permit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-9 Inspection of Improvements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-10 Sidewalks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-11 Water and Sewer Connections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-12 Special Provisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-13  SECTION B: ZONING DISTRICTS      ARTICLE XII Establishment of Districts General Provisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-1 Residential Districts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-2 Business Districts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-3 Commercial/Industrial Districts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-4 Medical District . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-5 RESERVED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-6 Above Ground Storage Tank Overlay District . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-7  ARTICLE XIII District Requirements General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13-1 Table of Permitted Uses (Defined). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13-2 Compliance with District Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13-3 Requirements for Lot Area, Width, Coverage, Density . . . . 13-4 Requirements for Public and Semi-Public Building . . . . . . . 13-5 Setbacks - Minimum District Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13-6 Maximum Building Height . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13-7 Performance Standards for Non-Residential Districts . . . . . . 13-8  ARTICLE XIV RESERVED  SECTION C: SITE PLAN REVIEW  ARTICLE XV Procedures for Site Plan Review Use and Applicability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-1 Special Provisions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-2 Plan Content . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-3 Waiver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-4 Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15-5 Issuance of Site Disturbance Permit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-6 Requirement of Bond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-7 Release of Bond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-8 Issuance of Building Permit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-9  SECTION D: PARKING REQUIREMENTS  ARTICLE XVI Parking Requirements for All Districts  v General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16-1 Parking Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16-2 Design Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16-3  SECTION E: SUBDIVISION REVIEW  ARTICLE XVII Procedures for Subdivision Review Pre-Application Conference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17-1 Preliminary Plat Application . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17-2 Final Plat Application . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17-3  SECTION F: DRAINAGE PROVISIONS     SECTION  ARTICLE XVIII Drainage and Storm Sewers, Erosion and Sedimentation Control, and Storm Water Detention General Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-1 General Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-2 Location . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-3 Accessibility to Public Storm Sewers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-4 Accommodation of Upstream Drainage Areas . . . . . . . . . . . 18-5 Effect on Downstream Drainage Areas . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 18-6 General Provisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-7 Easements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-8 Dedication of Easements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-9 Engineering Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-10 Culverts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-11 Bridges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-12 Open Channels and Ditches . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-13 Storm Runoff Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-14 Special Construction - Concrete Box Culverts . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-15 Head Walls and Riprap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-16 Erosion and Sedimentation Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-17 Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-18 Submission and Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-19 Plan Content . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-20 Protection of Property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-21 Basic Control Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-22 Mandatory Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-23 Design and Performance Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-24 Other Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-25 Guidelines for Erosion and Sediment Control Practices . . . . . 18-26 Additional Measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-27 Storm Water Detention - General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-28 Minimum Requirements for Storm Water Detention . . . . . . . . 18-29 Jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-30 Liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-31 Engineer’s Seal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-32 Pre-Design Conference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-33 Letter of Transmittal.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-34  vi Differential Runoff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-35 Developments Affected . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-36 Phasing and Platting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-37 Method of Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-38 Method of Detention . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-39 Common Ground Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-40 Permanent Lakes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-41 Parking Lots . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-42 Other Methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-43 Verification of Adequacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-44 Control Structures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-45 Discharge System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-46 Easements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-47 Maintenance Easement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-48 Drainage Easement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-49 Maintenance of Detention . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-50  SECTION G: LANDSCAPE PROVISIONS   ARTICLE XIX Landscape and Tree Protection Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-1 Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-2 Applicability and Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-3 Landscape Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-4 Protection of Significant Trees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-5 Tree Protection Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-6 Tree Removal and Permit Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-7 Replacement Trees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-8 Greenbelt Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-9 Buffer Zone Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-10 Off-Street Parking Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-11 Special Designs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-12 Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-13 Certificate of Occupancy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-14 Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-15 Penalties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-16  SECTION H: RESERVED  ARTICLE XX: RESERVED  SECTION I: ZONING PROVISIONS   ARTICLE XXI Establishment of Board of Zoning Adjustment Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21-1 Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21-2 Limitation, Withdrawal, Citizen Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21-3 Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21-4   vii ARTICLE XXII Zoning Amendment Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22-1 Reversionary Clause . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22-2 Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22-3  ARTICLE XXIII Annexation Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23-1 Procedure for Zoning Newly Annexed Land . . . . . . . . . . . . 23-2 Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23-3  ARTICLE XXIV Vacation of Easement and/or Right-of-Way Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24-1 Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 24-2  SECTION J: MOBILE HOME, MANUFACTURED HOME, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PROVISIONS SECTION  ARTICLE XXV  Mobile Home Park Provisions  General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25-1  ARTICLE XXVI Manufactured Home Provisions General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 26-1 License . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26-2 Compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26-3 Compatibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26-4 Minimum Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26-5  ARTICLE XXVII Recreational Vehicle Park Provisions General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27-1 Minimum Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 27-2  SECTION K: MULTI-FAMILY, INNOVATIVE DESIGN, AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS       ARTICLE XXVIII Fixed Dwelling Provisions Apartments, Town Homes, and Condominiums Provisions Minimum Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28-1   ARTICLE XXIX  Innovative Design Provisions General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29-1  ARTICLE XXX Planned Unit Development Provisions  viii Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30-1 Types of Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30-2 General Regulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30-3 Development Regulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30-4  Uses Permitted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30-5 Other Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30-6 Review Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30-7 Application Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30-8  ARTICLE XXXI Home Occupations, Automobile Service Stations, and Cemeteries Home Occupations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31-1 Automobile Service Stations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31-2 Cemeteries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31-3  SECTION L: TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER PROVISIONS  ARTICLE XXXII Telecommunication Tower Provisions Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32-1 Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32-2 Procedures and Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32-3  SECTION M: SIGN PROVISIONS      ARTICLE XXXIII Sign Provisions Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-1 General Provisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-2 Special Provisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-3 Nonconforming Signs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-4 Signs for Which No Permit is Required . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-5 Signs Prohibited in All Districts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-6 Maintenance and Removal of Signs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-7 Traffic Control Devices on Private Property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-8 Municipal Sign Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-9 Permitted Signs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-10 Schedule of Permitted Signs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-11 Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-12  SECTION N: SCHEDULE OF FEES      ARTICLE XXXIV  Schedule of Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34-1  SECTION O: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES SECTION  ARTICLE XXXV  Table of Permitted Uses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35  9  ARTICLE XXXVI  Location Restrictions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36  APPENDIX G: SUPPLEMENTAL DEPARTMENTAL APPLICATIONS  Documents provided herein are to be used for reference only. Original documents shall be obtained from the Planning Department prior to submittal. APPENDIX H: ZONING DISTRICT MAP  Exhibit A (Separate from this document)  APPENDIX I: RESERVED  APPENDIX J: RESERVED  APPENDIX K: RESERVED    10 SECTION A LEGAL AND GENERAL   11    ARTICLE I  PURPOSE,  REPEALS, ENACTMENT  AND SHORT TITLE  1-1 PURPOSE  The City of Saraland, Alabama, pursuant to the authority granted by Title 11, Subtitle 2, Chapter 52, Articles 1 through 4, Code of Alabama, 1975 and 1986 Cumulative Supplement, in order to promote the health, safety, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the residents; to lessen congestion in the street; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, and parks; to facilitate initiation of the Comprehensive Plan, and other public requirements, hereby ordains and enacts into law an official Land Use and Development Ordinance in accordance with the laws of Alabama. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Ordinance shall be:  (a) Considered as minimum requirements. (b) Liberally construed in favor of the governing body. (c) Deemed to neither limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes. 1-2 REPEALS AND ENACTMENT  An Ordinance of the City of Saraland establishing rules and regulations for zoning, platting, and subdividing land which rules and regulations define the legal authority; classify land; establish zoning districts requirements; prescribe procedures for plat review; set standards and specifications for streets, utilities, and other public improvements in subdivisions; and, prescribe methods for enforcement, exceptions, and amendments. 1-3 SHORT TITLE  This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Land Use and Development Ordinance" for the City of Saraland. 12 ARTICLE II  LEGAL STATUS  2-1 AUTHORITY  The rules and regulations set forth herein are hereby adopted in accordance with Title 11, Subtitle 2, Chapter 52, Articles 1 through 4 of the Code of Alabama, 1975, (as amended), and 1986 Cumulative Supplement are as follows:  (a) Zoning:  Zoning authority is specifically contained in Title 11, Subtitle 2, Chapter 52, Articles 1 and 4 of the Code of Alabama, 1975, (as amended), and 1986 Cumulative Supplement. (b) Subdivisions:  Subdivision authority is specifically contained in Title 11, Subtitle 2, Chapter 52, Articles 1, 2, and 3 of the Code of Alabama, 1975, (as amended), and 1986 Cumulative Supplement. 2-2 JURISDICTION  (a) Zoning:  This Ordinance shall be in force and effect for zoning purposes within the corporate limits of the City of Saraland as presently or hereinafter established. (b) Subdivisions:  This Ordinance shall be in force and effect for the subdivision of all land which is situated inside the corporate limits of the City of Saraland, as well as, all land which lies in the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction of the City of Saraland, as presently or hereinafter established. 2-3 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS  Whenever the requirements of this Ordinance conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted statutes, rules, regulations, or ordinances the more restrictive or that which imposes the higher standard shall govern. 2-4 VALIDITY  Each phrase, sentence, paragraph, section, or other provision of this Ordinance is severable from all other such phrases, sentences, paragraphs, sections, and provisions. Should any phrase, sentence, paragraph, section, or provision of this Ordinance be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect any other section or provision of this Ordinance. 13 2-5 REPEAL OF REGULATIONS AND ORDINANCES  This is a comprehensive enactment of a Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations for the City of Saraland and all prior Zoning Ordinances and Subdivision Regulations are hereby superseded and repealed. 2-6 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY  These regulations shall not create liability on the part of the City of Saraland, Planning Commission, the Board of Adjustment, any officer, or employee thereof for any damages that may result from reliance on this Ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. 2-7 EFFECTIVE DATE  This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force upon and hereinafter the date of its adoption by the City Council. 2-8 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES  (a) Penalties:  Any person violating any provision of this Ordinance shall be fined upon conviction, not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and costs of court for each offense. Each day such violation continues it shall constitute a separate offense. (b) Remedies:  In case any building or structure which exists or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, renovated, or maintained; or any building, structure, or land which is proposed to be used in violation of this Ordinance; or any adjacent or neighboring property owner would be specially damaged by such violation the Building Official, Code Enforcement Officer, or other appropriate authorized representative may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus, other appropriate action, proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, renovation, maintenance, use, correction or abatement of such violation, or to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or land. Each and every day such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use continues, it shall be deemed a separate offense and shall be subject to the fines and penalties specified herein. 14   ARTICLE III  OFFICIAL PLANS AND MAPS  3-1 IMPLEMENTATION  This Ordinance shall be implemented in support of the Comprehensive Plan. A copy of the plan is filed in the office of the City Clerk. 3-2 FUTURE LAND USE MAP  The Future Land Use Map as contained in the Comprehensive Plan shall serve as a guide for the future development of Saraland. To the extent practical, it shall be followed in the administration of this Ordinance, and may be considered by the Planning Commission, Board of Adjustments or City Council in any matter brought before them in administering this Ordinance. 3-3 OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP  The Zoning District Map, Exhibit A, the latest edition, is hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance. This map shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk. It shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk to show thereon the date of adoption of said Ordinance. 3-4 AMENDMENTS TO THE OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP  If, in accordance with the provisions herein, revisions are made in the zoning district boundaries or any other information portrayed on the Zoning District Map, changes shall be made on the Map immediately following the amendment and upon approval of the City Council. Unauthorized alterations to Zoning District Map shall be considered a violation of this Ordinance and subject to penalties as prescribed herein. 3-5 FILE OF PROPERTIES REZONED, VARIANCE GRANTED, SUBDIVISIONS APPROVED  The City Clerk shall maintain a file or registry of properties rezoned, variances granted, and subdivisions approved under the authority of this Ordinance in conjunction with all pertinent requirements and/or conditions thereto. 15 ARTICLE IV  ADOPTION  4-1 This Ordinance was adopted by the City of Saraland, Alabama, on the 27th day of December, 2007. _____________________________________   Council President          ______________________________________    Mayor     ______________________________________            City Clerk   I,          , City Clerk of the City of Saraland, Alabama, certifies that the document described herein, identified as the "Land Use and Development Ordinance" , Alabama, is a true and correct copy of the Ordinance Number 757 adopted by the City of Saraland, Alabama this 27th day of December, 2007. Seal of the City of Saraland. 16 ARTICLE V  DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION  5-1 AUTHORITY  The composition, duties and powers of the Planning Commission shall include, but are not limited to the following:  (a) Shall be composed of nine (9) members, selected in accordance with Ala. Code § 11-52-3 (1993 Repl. Vol.) (b) Shall be the function and duty of the Commission to make and adopt a master plan for the physical development of the municipality, including any areas outside of its boundaries which in the Commission’s judgement, bear relation to the planning of such municipality. (c) Shall be charged with the responsibility to review, apply, and monitor the enforcement of this Ordinance in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan or portions thereof which are adopted. It shall be part of the duties of the Commission to consult with and advise public officials, agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational, professional and other organizations, and citizens with relation to the protection and implementation of the plan. (d) Shall hear and take action on all matters which require Planning Commission "approval" as specified herein. (e) Shall render decisions on uses not provided for in the Table of Permitted Uses. (f) Shall hear and recommend to the City Council on all matters of zoning, rezoning, and zoning of newly annexed properties when an R-1, Low Density Single Family Residential, district is determined by the Planning Commission not to be the proper zone. (g) Shall, from time to time, recommend to the appropriate public officials programs for public structures and improvements, and for the financing thereof. (h) Shall review and approve construction of a street, park, public way, open space, public building or structure, or public utility, whether publicly or privately owned, authorized in the municipality, planned section, or district for location, character, and extent thereof. An application presented for review to the Planning Commission shall adhere to the requirements otherwise provided herein and as may be established by the Commission for the lawful rendering of its duty. In general, the Planning Commission shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it to fulfill its functions, promote municipal planning, or to carry out the purposes of this chapter. 17 ARTICLE VI  PROCEDURES FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS  6-1 IMPLEMENTING AUTHORITY   To the extent provided herein, the Planning Commission shall be the implementing authority for this Ordinance, except and only to the extent where required by law or by provisions of this Ordinance action of the City Council or Board of Adjustments is indicated. Appeals of any final judgment or decision of the Planning Commission shall be made within fifteen (15) days thereafter to the Circuit Court of Mobile County, Alabama. Upon the filing of such an appeal, the aggrieved party shall file a written notice with the Planning Commission specifying the judgment or decision from which such appeal is taken. When action of the City Council is required, such deliberative action of the City Council shall take place after due consideration of recommendations made to it by the Planning Commission. 6-2 PUBLIC HEARINGS  When the Planning Commission must hold a public hearing on any matter where its action is decisive, due notice shall be given as required by law. When the City Council must hold a public hearing on any matter recommended by the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission may dispense with a separate hearing and submit its recommendation to the appropriate body. The public notice of such hearing by the City Council shall be published or posted by the City Clerk upon receipt of the recommendation from the Planning Department regarding the date, time, and place of said hearing. 6-3 RULES  "Robert's Rules of Order" shall normally govern the order of business and conduct of meetings of the Planning Commission or any committee of said Commission. 6-4 MEETINGS  The Planning Commission shall hold at least one (1) regular scheduled meeting per month. The date, time, and place of such meeting shall be determined by the Planning Commission. Special meetings of the Planning Commission may be called by the Chairman upon giving a forty-eight (48) hour notice to the members. 6-5 AGENDA  An agenda shall be prepared by the secretary in concert with the Planning Commission Chairman for each meeting of the Planning Commission. 6-6 QUORUM  Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business. An affirmative vote of not less than six (6) members shall be required for approval of a subdivision, pursuant to Section 11-52-10, the Code of Alabama, 1975, (as amended). (Ord.804, 9-23-10)  18  6-7 APPLICATIONS  Applications for zoning amendments, annexation, vacation of easement and/or right-of- way, subdivision plats, site plans, or recommendations with regard to the development of land shall be filed and handled in accordance with the provisions outlined herein. 6-8 STUDY  The Planning Commission may defer action on any matter submitted to the Commission at a regular meeting until the next regular meeting so proper study of the matter may be made by the membership provided; however, to the extent required by law, the action taken on any matter submitted to the Commission shall be within thirty (30) days of submission of the matter to the Commission. 6-9 SIGNATURES  The Chairman or in the event of his absence, the Vice-Chairman or the Secretary shall be the person(s) authorized to sign documents testifying to action taken by the Planning Commission. *Note: Get applicant to agree if more than 30 days. 19    ARTICLE VII   BUILDING OFFICIAL  7-1 AUTHORITY  The Building Official shall be designated by the Mayor and the duties shall be as follows:  (a) Is authorized and empowered on behalf and in the name of the City Council to administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance to include receiving applications, inspecting premises, and issuing Certificates of Occupancy for uses and structures which are in conformance with the provisions as outlined herein. (b) Does not have the authority to take final action on applications, matters involving variances, or other exceptions which this Ordinance has reserved for action by the Board of Zoning Adjustment, the Planning Commission, and/or the City Council. (c) Shall keep records of all permits, the Certificates of Occupancy issued, maps, plats, and other documents with notations of all special conditions. They shall file and safely keep copies of all sketches and plans submitted. The same shall form a part of the records of their office and shall become public record. 7-2 PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES  (b) Approval of Plans and Issuance of Building Permits (Ord. 947, 3/27/14)  The Building Official is authorized to approve any plans or issue a building permit for construction once they have reviewed the plans in detail and found them to be in conformity with this Ordinance. To this end, the Building Official shall require every application for a building permit for construction, use of land, moving or alteration be accompanied by a plan or plat drawn to scale and showing sufficient detail to enable the Building Official to ascertain whether the proposed construction, use of land, moving, or alteration is in conformance with this Ordinance. Such plan or plat shall include, as a minimum the following:  (1) The actual shape, proportion, and dimension of the lot to be built upon. (2) The shape, size, location, and intended use of all buildings or other structures   to be erected, altered, moved, or existing on the lot. (3) The existing and intended use of all such buildings or other structures. If the proposed excavation, construction, moving, or alterations as set forth in the application are in conformity with the provisions as provided herein, the Building Official of the Municipality shall issue a building permit accordingly. Unless an applicant agrees to an extension, the Building Official will rule on all applications for building permits within thirty (30) days of the submittal of a complete application to the Building Department. If the Building Official has not approved or denied a building permit application within that thirty (30) day time frame, the applicant is authorized to request the Saraland Board of Adjustments decide  20 whether to grant or deny the application. If an application for a building permit is not approved, the Building Official shall state in writing the cause for such disapproval. Issuance of a building permit shall in no case be construed as waiving any provision nor of any legal liability for noncompliance with the provisions of this Ordinance on the part of the building, owner, or applicant. If an application for building permit is denied based upon the expiration of the thirty (30) day time limit herein, the applicant will have thirty (30) days to request in writing from the Building Office the substantive reasons for the denial of the building permit. Upon receipt of said request from the applicant, the Building Official will have seven (7) calendar days to provide in writing the cause for denial. (c) Certificate of Occupancy:  No land, building, other structure or part thereof hereafter erected, moved or altered in its use shall be used until the Building Official shall have issued a Certificate of Occupancy stating such land, structure, or part thereof is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. The owner or their agent is required to notifiy the Building Official that a building, premises, or part thereof is ready for occupancy or use. Within seven (7) days of notification and upon verification by the Building Official that all notices, information, and other requested data utilized by the City to determine project and building compliance with all relevant state and municipal codes and regulations, the Building Official shall make a final inspection thereof, and to issue a Certificate of Occupancy if the building, premises, or part thereof is found to be in conformance with the provisions of this Ordinance and all relevant state and municipal statues, ordinances and regulations. If a certificate is refused, the Building Official shall state the refusal in writing with the cause. 7-3 CONTINUANCE OF PREVIOUSLY ISSUED PERMITS  Permits previously issued shall not be affected by the provisions of this Ordinance, except as otherwise provided herein. 21 ARTICLE VIII  DEFINITION OF TERMS  8-1 USAGE  Except as otherwise provided herein, all words shall have the customary dictionary meaning. The present tense includes the future tense and the future tense includes the present tense. The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular. The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, association, organization, trust, or partnership. The word "lot" includes "plot" or "parcel." The word "building" includes "structure." The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or buildings shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied. The words "zoning map" mean the Official Zoning District Map of the City of Saraland. “The New Illustrated Book of Development Definitions” by Harvey S. Moskowitz and Carl G. Lindbloom shall be adopted as a reference and shall become a part of the Land Use and Development Ordinance as an expansion of the Definition of Terms not contained in this Article. 8-2 WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED  As used in this Ordinance, the following words and terms shall have the meaning defined:  (1) Abutting/Contiguous Property. Any property that is immediately adjacent to, touching, or immediately across any road or public right-of-way from the property in question. (2) Accessory Structure. A detached subordinate structure, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the principal structure and which is located on the same parcel or lot as the principal structure. (3) Accessory Use. Any use may be established as an accessory use to any permitted principal use in any district provided:  (a) Is customarily incidental to and is maintained and operated as a part of the principal use. (b) Is not hazardous to and does not impair the use or enjoyment of nearby property in greater degree than the principal use with which it is associated. (c) Does not create levels of noise, odors, vibration and lighting, or degrees of traffic congestion, dust or pollutants, in a greater amount than customarily created by principal use. (4) Agriculture. The use of land for farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and animal poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing the produce; provided, however, the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities and provided further the above uses shall not include  22 the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals. (5) Alley. A public street which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation. (6) Alteration, Altered. These terms shall include any changes in structural parts, stairways, type of construction, kind of class of occupancy, light or ventilation, means of ingress and egress, or other changes affecting or regulated by the Building Code or this Ordinance, including extension or expansion, except for minor changes or repairs not involving the aforesaid features. (7) Arterial Street. A street designed or utilized primarily for high speed vehicular movements and heavy volumes of traffic. (8) Atrium. An open area within a building surrounded on all four sides by the building walls and open and unobstructed from the first floor level to the roof or sky except as otherwise provided herein. (9) Automobile Repair. The repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles or parts thereof, including collision service, painting, and steam cleaning of vehicles. (10) Automobile Wrecking. The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles, mobile homes, trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts. (11) Awning. Detachable frame work covered by cloth or other light materials, supported from the walls of a building for protection from sun or weather. (12) Basement. A story all or partly underground but having at least one-half of its height below the average level of the adjoining ground. (13) Beach Shelter. An accessory structure, temporary or permanent, consisting of one or more columns and a roof, not including walls or permanent facilities of any type. Placement of a beach shelter shall be subject to the regulations of the Coastal Area Management Program. (14) Best Management Practice (BMP). A structural or nonstructural management based practice used singularly on in combination to reduce non-point source inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals. (15) Block. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys. (16) Board. The Board of Zoning Adjustment; a review board authorized to perform certain duties. (17) Boarding House. A building or part thereof, other than a hotel, motel, or restaurant, where meals and/or lodging are provided for compensation, where no cooking or dining facilities are provided in individual rooms. This is a transient living accommodation, and traditional long term roommate arrangements are not included in this definition. (Ord. 1076, 5-30-17)  23  (18) Boat Repair. Major overhauling or repair of small craft and pleasure boats that requires open air, partially covered or enclosed dry dock facilities and such heavy equipment, yard space, and dock facilities as may be necessary. (19) Body-piercing Studio. An establishment whose principal business activity, either in terms of operation or as held out to the public, is the practice of creating openings in the body of a person for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decorations. (20) Building. Any structure attached to the ground and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure for persons, animals, or chattels. (21) Building, Accessory. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of the principal use of the main building. (22) Building, Alterations. Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, beams, columns, and girders) except such change as may be required for its safety; any addition to a building; any changes in use resulting from moving a building from one location to another. (23) Building Coverage. The percent of total lot area covered by buildings and structures but excluding roof overhangs, unenclosed balconies, and unenclosed walkways which do not project more than six (6) feet from the exterior walls of a building or from walls enclosing an atrium. (24) Building Height. The vertical distance measured from the average on all four (4) sides of the buildings. (25) Building Line. (See Setback Line.) (26) Building Official. Individual appointed by the City of Saraland to carry out inspections required by the Building Code, latest edition. (27) Building, Principal. A building in which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot or parcel for which said building is situated. (28) Bulk. Height and percentage of land coverage of a building. (29) Bulkhead. A structure separating land and water areas, primarily designed to resist earth pressures. (30) Business/Commercial Center. A group of two or more owners, occupants or tenants with common customer and employee parking provided onsite, and/or connected together by common walls, interior aisles or malls. (31) Business/Office Park. A planned development of one or more office(s) and/or business(es) in a park-like setting. (32) Cabana. An accessory structure usually used in connection with outdoor bathing or recreation providing enclosed space for showering or changing clothes, with recreational cooking and/or bar facilities including storage facilities, but no  24 sleeping rooms. (33) Camp Site. A development for the accommodation of tourists or vacationers on a short-term basis, providing rental spaces for each individual trailer, camper, motor home, recreation, and service facilities for the use of the tenants. (34) Canopy. A detachable, roof-like cover, supported from the ground, or deck or floor of a building, and from the walls of a building, for protection from sun or weather. (35) Cemetery. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human and animal dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums, and mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such cemetery. (36) Central Sewer System. All equipment and property involved in the operation of a sanitary sewer utility, including waste water lines and appurtenances, pumping stations, treatment works, disposal facilities, and general property necessary for the operation of such utility, which shall be fully installed, operable, and providing service in compliance with applicable Alabama laws and regulations. (37) Central Water System. All of the equipment and property involved in the operation of a water utility, including water lines and appurtenances, pumping stations, treatment works, disposal facilities, and general property necessary for the operation of such utility, which shall be fully installed, operable, and providing service in compliance with applicable Alabama laws and regulations. (38) Certificate of Occupancy. Official certification that a premise conforms to provisions of the zoning ordinance and building code, and may be used or occupied. Such certificate is granted for new construction or for the substantial alteration or additions to existing structures. A structure may not be occupied unless such certificate is issued by the Building Official. (39) Change of Occupancy. The term "change of occupancy" shall mean a discontinuance of an existing use and the substitution therefore of a use of a different kind or class. Change of occupancy is not intended to include a change of tenants or proprietors unless accompanied by a change in the type of use. (40) Channel. A natural or artificial water course of perceptible extent, with bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water. (41) City. The City of Saraland. (42) City Council. The chief legislative body of the City of Saraland. (43) City Engineer. The City of Saraland Engineer. (44) Clinic. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm, injured persons, and those who are in need of medical or surgical attention, but who are not provided with board. (45) Club. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated for a social,  25 literary, political, educational, or recreational purpose primarily for the exclusive use of members and their guests. (46) Club, Private. Any association or organization of a fraternal or social character, not operated or maintained for profit. This does not include casinos, night clubs, or other institutions operated for a profit. (47) Collector Street. A street which carries medium volumes of traffic collected primarily from minor streets and delivered to arterial streets. (48) Commercial Vehicle. Any vehicle designed and used for transportation of people, goods, or things, other than private passenger vehicles and trailers for private nonprofit transport of goods and boats. (49) Commission. The City of Saraland Planning Commission. (50) Comprehensive Plan. The Community Development Plan including land use, housing, public facilities, and other planning elements currently in use by the City of Saraland. (51) Condominium. An individually-owned, single family dwelling unit in a multi- family structure of any size and height permitted by local ordinance. (52) Convalescent or Nursing Home. A building, or portion thereof, wherein for compensation, living accommodations and care are provided for persons suffering from illness, other than mental or contagious, which is not of sufficient severity to require hospitalization, or for persons requiring further institutional care after being discharged from a hospital other than a mental hospital; including extended care facilities. (53) Convenience Store. Any retail store of the 7-11, Circle K, or Jr. Food Store variety providing self-service food, drink, tobacco, automobile fuel and other products for carry-out consumption, but not including bays, other than drive-through car washes, for automobile service or repair. (54) Curb and Curb Line. The inside vertical faces of a masonry curb, the center line of a valley gutter, or the edge of the pavement where no curb or gutters exist. (55) Day Care Center. A place for the day care and instruction of young or elderly persons not remaining overnight. (56) Deck. A flat covered or uncovered area generally adjoining a house, building or pool, and which may be used as an outdoor sitting or recreation area. (57) Dedication. The deliberate assignation of land by its owner(s) for any general or public use(s), reserving to himself no other rights than such as being compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public use(s) to which the property has been devoted. (58) Density. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of land. 26 (a) Gross Density - the number of dwelling units per acre of the total area of land to be developed. (b) Maximum Density - the density allowable in a given zoning district not otherwise limited by other applicable requirements of this Ordinance. (c) Net Density - the number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses. (59) District. A section of the area zoned, within which the zoning regulations are uniform. (60) Drive-In Restaurant. A restaurant or public eating business so conducted that food, meals, or refreshments are brought to the motor vehicles for consumption by the customer or patron. (61) Dry Well. A cavity of sufficient size, filled to the surface with compacted rocks to allow water storage capacity. (62) Dwelling or Dwelling Unit. Any building, portion thereof, or other enclosed space or area used as or intended for use as the home of one family, with separate cooking and housekeeping facilities, either permanently or temporarily. (a) Single Family - a detached building designed for and occupied by one family as a home, with cooking and housekeeping facilities which meets or exceeds the following standards:  (1) The exterior siding materials shall consist of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco, masonite, metal, brick, or vinyl lap or other materials of like appearance. (2) The electric meter must be attached to the structure. (3) Taxed as real property. (b) Two Family - a single building occupied by or designed for occupancy by two (2) families only, with separate cooking and housekeeping facilities for each, separated by a common wall and sharing a common roof and foundation. (c) Multiple Family - a building designed for or occupied by three (3) or more families, with separate cooking and housekeeping facilities for each. (63) Double Frontage or Through Lot. A lot or plot, but not a corner lot, that abuts upon two streets, the two frontages being noncontiguous. (64) Easement. A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific purpose or purposes by the general public or a corporation or a certain person or persons. (65) Erected. The word "erected" includes built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon or any physical operations on the premises required for building. Excavations fill  27 drainage, and the like shall be considered a part of erection. (66) Essential Services. Public utility facilities related to water, storm water sewers, sanitary sewers, solid waste disposal, telephone, cable television, gas and electrical collection or distribution systems serving the City of Saraland; but not including buildings housing employees, or public safety facilities such as fire and/or police stations. (67) Establishment. A commercial, industrial, institutional, educational, office, business, or financial entity. (68) Expansion, Building or Use. The addition of enclosed or unenclosed rooms or storage spaces, porches, or parking area, to an existing building or use on a parcel of land. (69) Family. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit and using common cooking facilities, provided that unless all members are related by blood, adoption or marriage, no such family shall contain over five persons. (Ord. 804, 9-23-10)  (70) Filling Station. (See Service Station). (71) Final Plat. The completed PUD or subdivision plat with appropriate official signatures in form for approval and recording. (72) Fixed Dwelling. A dwelling unit (or structure containing several units) attached to a permanent foundation. (73) Flood. A temporary rise in stream or surface water level that results in inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by water. (74) Flood Frequency. The average frequency statistically determined, for which it is expected that a specific flood level may be equaled or exceeded. (75) Flood Plain. Those areas defined by the U.S. Geological Survey or the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as subject to flooding once in one hundred (100) years, based on topography. (76) Flood Prone Area. Any area subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. (77) Floodway. That portion of the flood plain, including the channel, which is reasonably required to discharge the bulk of the regional flood waters. Floods of less frequent recurrence are usually contained completely within the floodway. (78) Floor Area, Gross. The sum of the gross enclosed horizontal area of all the floors of a building, except a basement or area under the first habitable story, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls and/or supporting columns. (79) Food Processing. The preparation, storage, or processing of food products on a large scale. Examples of these activities include bakeries, dairies, canneries, and other similar activities or businesses. 28 (80) Frontage, Building. The outside wall surface of a building or of an enclosed porch on a building that is nearest to the front lot line, or, in the case of a wall surface not parallel to the front lot lines, the average of the longest and shortest distance of the wall from the front lot line. (a) Lot Line - shall mean the lot line which abuts a street or separates the lot from a street. (b) Street Line - all the property on the side of a street between two intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), or if the street is dead ended, then all the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street. (81) Garage, Commercial. A building or portion thereof used for equipping, servicing, repairing, rental, selling and/or storage of self-propelled motor vehicles. Gasoline, oil, grease, batteries, tires and motor vehicle accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail. (82) Garage, Private. A building or part thereof designed and/or used for inside parking of self-propelled private passenger vehicles by the occupants of the house or other principal structure on the premises or by the occupants of or employees of a particular firm. (83) Garage, Public. A building or part thereof designed or used for indoor or partially indoor (covered) parking of self-propelled private passenger vehicles, operated as a commercial enterprise, accessory to a commercial enterprise, or as a governmental service and providing only incidental services for such vehicles. (84) Group Development. A development comprising two or more structures built on a single lot, tract or parcel of land and designed for occupancy by separate families, firms, businesses, or other enterprises. (85) Habitable Rooms. All living spaces within a dwelling unit (house, apartment, townhouse, condominium, mobile home) arranged in such a fashion as to be commonly described as kitchen, dining room, living room, dinette, family room, den, music room, library, bedroom and/or any other partitioned area that is designed to be used, or that may be used, in the opinion of the governing body, as a room for the carrying on of general family activities. (86) Hazardous Material or Substance. A substance is considered hazardous when it has one of the following characteristics: flammable, explosive, corrosive, toxic, radioactive, or if it readily decomposes into oxygen at elevated temperatures. (Ord. 906, 2-14-13; 989, 11-13-14)  (87) Height of Building. (See Building, Height). (88) Home Association. An incorporated, nonprofit organization operating under recorded land agreements through which, (a) each lot and/or homeowner in a planned or other described land area is automatically a member, and (b) each lot is automatically subject to a charge for a proportionate share of the expenses for the organization's activities, such as maintaining a common property, and, (c) the  29 charge if unpaid becomes a lien against the property. (89) Home Occupation. Any occupation for gain or support customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on solely by the inhabitant thereof, and which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, and does not change the character thereof. (90) Homeowners’ Association. A group of homeowners in a geographical area banded together for a specific purpose. (91) Hotel. A transient commercial lodging establishment consisting of one or more buildings used for this purpose, including accessory uses such as eating and drinking facilities, recreation facilities and parking. This category includes motels and motor hotels. Lodgings may consist of sleeping rooms only or may include cooking facilities also, but are not intended for long-term occupancy. (92) Institution or Institutional. A nonprofit organization building, or use, publicly or privately owned, for the benefit of the public (schools, churches, temples, hospitals, clubs, fire stations, police stations, sewerage lift pumps, libraries, museums, City offices, etc.). (93) Junk Yard. Place, structure or lot where junk, waste, discarded, salvaged, or similar materials such as old metals, wood, slush, lumber, glass, paper, rags, cloth, bagging, cordage, barrels, containers, etc. are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including auto wrecking yards, used lumber yards, house-wrecking yards, and yards or places for storage or handling of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials. This definition shall not include pawn shops and establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of usable secondhand cars, salvaged machinery, used furniture, radios, stoves, refrigerators or similar household goods and appliances. Nor shall it apply to the processing of used, discarded, or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations. (94) Kennel. Any place or premises where four or more dogs over four months of age are kept. (95) Licensee. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this Ordinance. (96) Lot. A piece, parcel, or plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one main building, accessory buildings, uses customarily incidental to such main buildings and such open spaces as are provided in this Ordinance, or as are intended to be used with such piece, parcel, or plot of land and having its principal frontage upon an existing or proposed right-of-way conforming to the requirements of this Ordinance. (97) Lot, Corner. A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection or upon two (2) parts of a street which form an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees. The point of intersection of the street lines is the corner. 30 (98) Lot, Interior. A lot other than a corner lot. (99) Lot Depth. The mean (average) horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured at right angles to the street lines. (100) Lot Width. The mean (average) horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at right angles to the lot depth, with the minimum to comply with this code to be measured at the front setback line. (101) Lot Line, Front. The lot line contiguous to the street right-of-way line of the principal street on which the lot abuts. On corner lots the front yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension. (102) Lot Line, Rear. The lot line opposite to and most distant from the front lot line. On all corner lots the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard. (103) Lot Line, Side. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot line of a corner lot separating a lot from a street is called a side street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot is called an interior lot line. On corner lots, the side yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its greatest dimension. (104) Lot of Record. A lot which is a part of a recorded plat or a plot described by metes and bounds, the map and/or description of which has been recorded according to Alabama law. (105) Maintenance and Storage Facilities. Land, buildings, and structures devoted primarily to the maintenance and storage of construction equipment and material. (106) Mall. Any concentration of two (2) or more retail stores and/or service establishments which share customer parking areas and is located within an enclosure having public walkways whereby a customer in one (1) store or establishment may walk to another store or establishment without leaving the enclosure. (107) Maneuvering Space. The space entirely on private property required for maneuvering vehicles into and out of spaces in such a manner as to preclude the backing of any vehicle into any street right-of-way. (108) Manufactured Home. A structure constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, U.S.C. 5401. Motor homes, house trailers, travel trailers, campers, mobile homes, mobile homes made to HUD standards and similar towed, transported, or self- propelled units are not manufactured homes. (109) Manufacturing, Extractive. Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, storing, separating, cleaning, marketing, or any mineral natural resource. (110) Manufacturing, General. Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing, and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive in  31 character; require large sites, open storage and service areas, extensive services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation and normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare, air pollution, and water pollution, but not beyond the zoning district boundary. (111) Manufacturing, Light. Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet, and free of objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, or dust; operating and storing within enclosed structures; and, generating little industrial traffic and no nuisances. (112) Marine. A harbor or boat basin providing moorage, docking facilities, supplies and minor services for pleasure boats. (113) Marina, Full Service. A place for docking pleasure boats or providing services to pleasure boats and the occupants thereof, including minor servicing and minor repair to boats while in the water, sale of fuel and supplies, water, electricity and sewer services, and the provision of lodging, food, beverages, and entertainment as accessory uses. Dry boat storage may also be provided, but not major boat repair. A yacht club shall be considered as a marina, but a hotel, or similar use, where docking of boats and provision of services thereto is incidental to other activities, shall not be considered a marina, nor shall boat docks accessory to a multi-family structure where no boat related services are rendered. (114) Marquee. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather. (115) Mini-warehouse. A building or group of buildings in a controlled access compound that contain varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized, and controlled-access stalls, cubicles and/or lockers used for storage only. (116) Mobile Home. Any vehicle or similar portable structure having been constructed with wheels (whether or not such wheels have been removed) and capable of being towed on a public street and so constructed as to permit occupancy for dwelling or sleeping purposes. (117) Mobile Home Park. A residential development on a parcel of land in one ownership providing rental spaces for two (2) or more mobile homes on a long-term basis, with recreation and service facilities for the tenants, whether or not a charge is made for such accommodation. (118) Mobile Home Space. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the accommodation of one (1) mobile home or travel trailer. (119) Mobile Home Subdivision. A residential development designed for the accommodation of mobile homes on individually-owned lots or in condominium or cooperative ownership, including recreation and open space areas held in common ownership, but not including developments serving tourist or vacation-oriented travel, motor homes, campers, etc. (120) Motel, Motor Hotel. (See Hotel). 32  (121) Net Residential Acreage. Land used or proposed to be used for the placement of dwelling units and their accessory uses, private open spaces, parking areas, etc. Does not include streets or public recreation or open spaces. (122) Nightclub. A restaurant, dining room, bar, or other similar establishment providing food or refreshments wherein floor shows or other forms of entertainment by persons are provided for guests. (123) Non-Chartered Financial Institution. (Ord. 938) Any business, other than a federally and state chartered bank, credit union, mortgage lender or savings and loan association that offers check cashing services, automobile title loans, and loans for payment of a percentage or graduated fee. Specifically included are check cashing and pawn shop businesses that charge a percentage or graduated fee for cashing a check or negotiable instrument and “payday loan” businesses that function as deferred presentment services. Also specifically included are businesses licensed by the State of Alabama as consumer loan businesses pursuant to the Alabama Small Loan Act and Consumer Credit businesses licensed by the State of Alabama to provide consumer loans and/or taking assignments of consumer credit contracts pursuant to the Alabama Consumer Credit Act as amended. However, this provision does not include retail businesses which as a part of their retail services provide financing and/or loans for purchases of retail goods sold, and which sale serves as the primary business being conducted at the location. (124) Nonconforming Use. A use of land existing lawfully at the time of the enactment of this Ordinance, or at the time of a Zoning Amendment and which does not conform with the regulations of the district in which it is located. (125) Nursing Home. A home for aged, chronically ill, or incurable persons in which three or more persons not of the immediate family are received, kept, or provided with food and shelter or care for compensation, but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of the sick or injured. (126) Nursery, Plant Materials. Land, building, structure, or combination thereof for the storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs, or plants offered for wholesale or retail sale on the premises including products used for gardening or landscaping. (127) Nursery School. A place for the day care and instruction of children not remaining overnight; includes day care centers. (128) Offices. Space or rooms used for professional, administrative, clerical, and similar uses. (129) Open House. A house in which a selling agent is present and the house is offered for sale to the general public. (130) Open Space. An area open to the sky which may be on the same lot with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental features, swimming pools, tennis courts or any other recreational facilities. Streets, structures for  33 habitation, and the like shall not be included. (a) Open Space, Permanent Usable, in Planned Unit Development:   (1) Privately-owned and occupied area of a separate lot, outside of any buildings on the lot. (2) Privately-occupied open space assigned to an individual dwelling unit in a project and not occupied by the dwelling. (3) Public open space. Any spaces not occupied by buildings or privately-owned lots or privately-occupied space. This public open space may consist of access driveways, off-street parking spaces, pedestrian walkways, play areas, landscaped areas and any other areas suitable for the common enjoyment of the residents of the project. (131) Parking Space, Off-Street. For the purpose of this Ordinance, an off-street parking space shall consist of an area adequate for parking an automobile with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room, but shall be totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way. (132) Pawn Shop. An establishment that lends money on the security of goods pledged by the owner of such goods on the condition that the goods may be redeemed or repurchased by the owner for a fixed price within a fixed period of time. This definition includes car title pawn companies which provide the borrower with cash in exchange for the borrower’s vehicle title as collateral. (133) Permit. Any written authorization by a duly appointed City of Saraland representative for an individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or corporation to undertake activities related to subdivisions, zoning, PUD's, land use, building or other actions permitted in this Ordinance or by other City of Saraland authorization. (134) Permittee. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or corporation to whom a permit is granted, including any person to whom a temporary permit is issued, such as that to maintain and operate a mobile home park under the provisions of this Ordinance. (135) Person. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or corporation. (136) Planned Unit Development. A planned unit development is as follows:  (a) Is land under single ownership or unified control, planned and developed as a whole in a single development operation or approved programmed series of development operations, and which generally includes clustered buildings, common open spaces, and a mix of building types and land uses. (b) Includes principal and accessory uses and structures substantially related to the character of the development itself and the surrounding area of which it is a part. 34  (c) Is developed according to comprehensive and detailed plans which include not only streets, utilities, lots, or building sites and the like, but also site plans, floor plans, and elevations for all buildings as intended to be located, constructed, used, and related to each other, and detailed plans for other uses and improvements, facilities, and services as will be common use by some or all of the occupants of the planned unit developments, but will not be provided, operated, or maintained at public expense. (137) Planning Commission. The City of Saraland Planning Commission. (138) Plat. A map, plan, or layout of a county, city, town, section, or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of properties. (139) Porch. A roofed-over space attached to the outside of an exterior wall of a building, which has no enclosure other than the exterior walls of such building. Open mesh screening shall not be considered an enclosure. (140) Preliminary Plat. The plat of a proposed subdivision for presentation to the Planning Commission for its consideration and public hearing. (141) Principal Use or Building. A use or building in which is conducted the predominant or primary function or activity of the lot upon which it is located. (142) Public Land Uses. Any land use operated by or through a unit or level of government, either through lease or ownership, such as municipal administration and operation, county buildings and activities, state highway offices and similar land uses; and federal uses such as post offices, bureau of public roads, internal revenue offices, military installations, etc. (143) Recreational Vehicle. A self-propelled vehicle used for temporary housing of individuals and families during travel. This category, in this Ordinance is assumed to include also campers, camping trailers, motor homes and smaller mobile homes (up to a length of twenty-eight (28) feet exclusive of hitch) capable of being towed by a passenger motor car. (144) Regulatory Flood. The flood which is representative of large floods known to have occurred generally in the area and reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur. The regulatory flood generally has a flood frequency of approximately one hundred (100) years as determined from an analysis of floods at a particular site and other sites in the same general region. (145) Residential Dock or Pier. A dock or pier constructed adjacent to a residential lot for gratis recreational purposes and/or mooring of private boats. (146) Restrictive Covenants. Private regulations recorded with the Final Plat, which limit or otherwise govern the use, intensity and development patterns of the land within a subdivision or parcel of land for a specified time. (147) Retaining Wall. A wall of wood, brick, concrete or other suitable material designed to prevent erosion of soil from sharply sloping land or from around pools, decks,  35 foundations and other similar structures. (148) Revetment. A facing of stone, concrete, etc., built to protect a scarp, embankment, or shore structure against erosion by wave action or current. (149) Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation. The elevation of the regulatory flood plus one (1) foot of freeboard to provide a safety factor. (150) Right-of-Way. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips, sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features (required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts, and bridges. (151) Roadside Stand. A temporary structure designed or used for the display or sale of agricultural and related products. (152) Roadway. That portion of a street between the regularly established curb lines or that part of a street devoted to vehicular traffic. (153) Rooming House. Any building or portion thereof, other than a hotel or motel, which contains not less than three (3) or more than nine (9) guest rooms which are designed or intended to be used, let, or hired out for occupancy, more or less transiently, by individuals for compensation whether paid directly or indirectly, and without provisions for cooking by guests or meals for guests. (154) Satellite Receiving Dishes. A dish-shaped antenna designed to receive television broadcasts relayed by microwave signals from earth-orbiting communications satellites. This definition also includes satellite earth stations, or television dish antennas. (155) Seat. For purposes of determining the number of off-street parking spaces for certain uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed or indicated, or each twenty-four (24) linear inches of benches, pews, or space for loose chairs. (156) Semi-Public Land Uses. Philanthropic and charitable land uses including: YMCA's, YWCA's, Salvation Army, churches and church institutions, orphanages, humane societies, private welfare organizations, nonprofit lodges and fraternal orders, hospitals, Red Cross, and other general charitable institutions. (157) Service Station, Automobile. Any building or land used for retail sale and dispensing of automobile fuels or oils; may furnish supplies, equipment and minor services to private passenger vehicles incidental to sale and dispensing of automobile fuels and oils. (158) Setback Line. A line established by the subdivision regulations and/or zoning ordinance, generally parallel with and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no building, other than accessory building, or structure, may be located above ground, except as may be provided in said Ordinance. 36 (159) Sewers, Public or Community. An approved sewage disposal system which provides a collection network and disposal system and central sewage and treatment facility for a single community, development, or region. (160) Sewers, On-Site. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual lot which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation officials having jurisdiction. (161) Schedule of Fees. The schedule of fees assessed by the City of Saraland Council with regard to the administration of the Land Use and Development Ordinance as specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV. (162) Shelter, Fall-Out. A structure or portion of a structure intended to provide protection of human life during periods of danger from nuclear fall-out, air raids, storms, or other emergencies. (163) Shopping Center. Two or more retail stores, commercial establishments, service establishments, and/or a combination of the above. Sharing: customer parking, common walls, and/or common walkways. (164) Sidewalk Area. That portion of a street not included in the roadway, and devoted in whole or in part to pedestrian traffic. (165) Sign. Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names or marks or combinations thereof, by which anything is made known, such as the designation of an individual, a firm, an association, a profession, a business, a commodity, or product which are visible from any public way and used as an outdoor display. (a) Banner. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is mounted to a pole or a building at one or more edges. (b) Billboard. A large elevated off-premises or off-site sign intended for view by the general public while traveling byway of motor vehicles, advertising an establishment, merchandise, product, service or entertainment which is not sold, provided, manufactured, or furnished on the property on which said sign is located. (Ord. 804, 9-23-10)  (c) Changeable Copy Sign/Reader Board. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face of the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than eight (8) times per day shall be considered an animated sign and not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this Ordinance. A sign on which the only copy that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or temperature shall be considered a "time and temperature" portion of a sign and not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this Ordinance. (d) Construction Sign. Any sign giving the name or names of principal  37 contractors, architects, and lending institutions responsible for construction on the premises during the time actual construction work is in progress. (e) Flashing, Electronic and/or Intermittent Illuminating Signs. Signs which contain intermittent illumination and the change occurs more than twelve (12) times per hour. (f) Legal Nonconforming Sign. (See Article XXXIII, Section 33-4 for Definition). (g) Marquee Sign. Any sign mounted to extend vertically below a marquee or canopy. (h) Nonconforming Sign. (See Article XXXIII for Definition). (i) Off-Premise Sign. A billboard or other sign relating its subject matter or any portion thereof to a premise other than the premises on which said sign is located. (j) On-Premise Sign. A sign relating its subject matter to the premises on which said sign is located. (k) Permanent Sign. A sign permanently affixed to a building or the ground. (l) Political Sign. A sign identifying and urging voter support for or in opposition to a particular issue, political party, or candidate for public office. (m) Portable Sign. Any sign whether on its own trailer, wheels, or otherwise, which is designed to be transported from one place to another. (n) Premises. An area of land with its appurtenances and buildings which, because of its unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of real estate. (o) Real Estate Sign. A sign which advertises the sale, rental or development of the premises upon which it is located. (p) Sandwich Sign. Any sign, double or single faced, which is portable and may readily be moved from place to place. (q) Temporary Sign. A sign or advertising display intended to be displayed for a short period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days (See temporary use). (r) Wall Sign. A sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building with the face parallel to the plane of the building wall. (s) Window Sign. Any sign placed inside or upon a window facing the outside and which is intended to be seen from the exterior. 38 (166) Sign Height. The vertical distance from the finished grade at the base of the supporting structure to the top of the sign, its frame, or supporting structure, whichever is higher. Such grade shall not be altered from the natural ground elevation. (167) Sign Surface Area. The surface area of a sign shall be computed for the area within the periphery of regular geometric forms, comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all the elements of the matter displayed, but not including structural elements of the sign bearing no advertising matter. (168) Special Exception. A land use which may be permitted that is not similar in nature to the uses permitted in a district, but that is desired in the community and for which a suitable district is not available. Such use may be permitted in the most nearly appropriate district where a location is available, upon appeal to and approval by the Board of Zoning Adjustment, which may set forth special conditions under which the use may be allowed. (169) Spot Zoning. The zoning of a “spot" or small area (individual lot or several contiguous lots) within the limits of an existing zoning district, and in which are permitted uses other than those permitted in the larger existing zoning district surrounding the “spot.” “Spot zoning" is not authorized by law. (170) Story. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it. (171) Story, Habitable. A story having its floor elevated at or above base flood elevation, as established by the City of Saraland, regardless of the intended use of the story or its floor area and complying with applicable building codes. (172) Street. Any public or private way set aside for common travel more than thirty (30) feet in width if such existed at the time of enactment of this Ordinance, or such right-of-way fifty (50) feet or more in width if established thereafter. (a) Collector Street. A street used to carry traffic from minor streets to the system of major streets. (b) Cul-de-sac or Dead End Street. A street having one end open to traffic and one terminating in a vehicular turnaround. (c) Major Street, Arterial Street or Highway. A street or highway or exceptional continuity designed to carry high volume traffic considerable distances. (d) Minor Street or Local Street. A street used primarily for access to abutting properties. (173) Structural Alteration. Any change, except for repair or replacement, in supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, and which complies with applicable building codes. (174) Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on  39 the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground. (175) Structure, Existing. Any structure the construction of which was initiated and all required state, local and federal authorizations were obtained prior to the effective date of this Ordinance. (176) Structure, New. Any structure which is not an existing structure. (177) Subdivider. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate co-partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity commencing proceedings to effect a subdivision of land hereunder. (178) Subdivision. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, plats, sites, or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sales or of building development. It concludes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or territory being subdivided. It shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets. However, the following shall not be included within this definition or be subject to the requirements thereof:   (a) Property that is divided by probated family estates;   (b) The public acquisition by gift or purchase of strips or parcels of land for the widening or opening of streets or for other public uses. (179) Subdivision - Extraterritorial Planning Jurisdiction. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, plats, sites, or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, that is divided by an individual and given and/or sold to parents, spouses, sisters, brothers, children, or grandchildren, either adopted or natural, where no streets or roadway access to the lots is involved and where lots are less than the minimum lot size as herein required. (180) Tattoo Parlor. An establishment whose principal business activity, either in terms of operation or as held out to the public, is the practice of placing designs, letters, figures, symbols, or other marks upon or under the skin of any person, using ink or other substances that result in the permanent coloration of skin by means of the use of needles or other instruments designed to contact or puncture the skin. This definition excludes permanent cosmetic establishments. (181) Temporary Use. A short period of time; not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days. (182) Tourist Home. A building, or part thereof, other than a motel or hotel, where sleeping accommodations are provided for transient guests, with or without meals, and which also serves as the residence of the operator. (183) Townhouse. An individually-owned, single family attached dwelling unit having a separate ground floor entrance and separate private yard space, with common side walls on one or both sides of the dwelling unit, and not exceeding two and one-half (2-1/2) stories or thirty-five (35) feet in height. (184) Travel Trailer Park. A development for the accommodation of tourists or  40 vacationers on a short-term basis, providing rental spaces for each individual trailer, camper, motor home, and recreation and service facilities for the use of the tenants, whether publicly or privately owned and whether operated for or without compensation. (185) Use. The specific purpose for which land or a building is designated, arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. (186) Variance. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations in a district with regard to placement of structures, developmental criteria or provision of facilities. Examples would be:  (a) Allowing smaller yard dimensions because an existing lot of record is of substandard size. (b) Waiving a portion of required parking and/or loading space due to some unusual circumstances. (c) Allowing fencing and/or plant material buffering different from that required, due to some unusual circumstances. Available only on appeal to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. (187) Waterway. Any body of water, including any creek, canal, river, lagoon, lake, bay or gulf, natural or artificial except a swimming pool or ornamental pool located on a single lot. (188) Wholesale Establishment. Business establishments that generally sell commodities in large quantities or by the place to retailers, jobbers, other wholesale establishments, or manufacturing establishments. These commodities are basically for further resale, for use in the fabrication of a product, or for use by a business service. (189) Yard. A space on the same lot with a main building, such space being open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky, except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted. (a) Yard, Front. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the main building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the right-of-way line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The depth of the front yard shall be measured between the front lines of the building and the right-of-way line. Covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall be considered as a part of the main building and shall not project into a required front yard. (b) Yard, Rear. An open space on the same lot with the main building, such space being unoccupied except possibly by an accessory building and extending the full width of the lot and the rear line of the main building projected to the side lines of the lot. 41  (c) Yard, Side. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building, situated between the side line of the building and the adjacent side line of the lot extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard. If no front yard is required, the rear boundary of the side yard shall be the rear line of the lot. (d) Yard, Minimum. That yard space remaining if the property is developed to the fullest extent allowable under applicable ordinances. (190) Zero Lot Line. A developmental approach in which a dwelling unit is sited along one or more lot lines. (191) Zoning Administrator. The administrative officer designated to administer the zoning ordinance and issue land use certificates. (192) Zoning District. A section of the City of Saraland designated in this Ordinance text and delineated on the zoning map wherein all requirements for use of land and building and development standards must be uniform. (193) Zoning District Map. The map or maps, which are a part of this Zoning Ordinance, and which delineate the boundaries of zoning districts. 42  ARTICLE IX  DISTRICT PROVISIONS  Except as hereinafter provided, the following shall generally apply:  9-1 RULES FOR DETERMINING BOUNDARIES  Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the districts as shown on the official Zoning District Map, the following rules shall apply:  (a) Unless otherwise indicated, the zoning district boundary lines shall be construed to follow property lines, land lot lines, center lines of streets, highways, alleys, shorelines of streams, reservoirs, other bodies of water, or civil boundaries. (b) Where zoning district boundaries are approximately parallel to the center lines of streets, highways, railroads, streams, reservoirs, bodies of water, or lines extended such zoning district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance there from as indicated on the official Zoning District Map. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the official Zoning District Map. (c) Where zoning district boundary lines appear on the official Zoning District Map and it divides a lot which is in single ownership at the time of this enactment of this Ordinance, the use classification of the larger(est) portion may be extended to the remainder by the Planning Commission without recourse to amendment procedure. (d) Where a public road, right-of-way, street, or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it is reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public road, right-of-way, street, or alley. (e) In case the exact location of a zoning district boundary line cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall upon application determine the location of the line. 9-2 NONCONFORMANCE  It is the intent of this section to recognize the elimination of existing buildings and structures or uses that are not in conformance with the provisions of this Ordinance in as much as it is a subject of health, safety, and general welfare and for the prevention of the establishment of new uses which would violate said provisions. It is also the intent of this Ordinance to administer the elimination of nonconforming uses, buildings, and structures so as to avoid any unreasonable invasion of established private property rights. Any structure or use of land existing at the time of the enactment of this Ordinance and amendments thereto and not in conformance with its use regulations and provisions, may be continued subject to the following provisions:  (a) Unsafe Structures:  Any structure or portion thereof declared unsafe by any authority and not  43 encompassed within the provisions of 9-2-(b) may be restored to a safe condition provided the restoration is in compliance with requirements of this Section. (b) Alterations:  Any change in a nonconforming building site or yard area is subject to the following:  (1) No nonconforming building can be structurally altered, except for repairs on or the installation of plumbing fixtures required by law; the changing of interior partitions; interior remodeling, cannot be substantially added to, moved, or extended in any manner unless such building is changed so as to conform with the provisions of this Ordinance. (2) Should a nonconforming building be moved, all nonconforming yard areas shall be eliminated. (3) A nonconforming use of land shall be restricted to the lot occupied by such use as of the effective date of this Ordinance. A nonconforming use of a building or buildings shall not be extended to include either additional buildings or land subsequent to the enactment of this Ordinance. (4) A nonconforming building, structure, or improvement which hereafter is damaged or destroyed, or suffers decay to an extent exceeding fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value prior to the damage or destruction or commencement of decay may not be reconstructed or restored to the same nonconforming use, except upon the approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment. Such damaged or destroyed structures that are no longer in use shall be removed and the site cleared at the owner's expense. (c) Change to Conforming Use:  A nonconforming use which is changed to a conforming use shall not be permitted to revert to the original or a less restrictive use. (d) Change in Nonconforming Use:  No nonconforming structure or use may be altered or changed to another type of nonconforming structure or use without conformance to the provisions of this Ordinance, except upon the approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment. (e) Discontinuance:  A nonconforming use which became such upon the adoption of this Ordinance and which has been discontinued for a continuous period of one (1) year shall not be reestablished and any future use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. (f) Adjacent Land:  The presence of a nonconforming use in a zoning district shall not be legal grounds  44 for the granting of variances for other surrounding properties by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. 9-3 BLOCKS  Blocks shall be arranged to assure maximum use of the topographic features of the land and shall not be less than four hundred (400) feet nor more than twelve hundred (1200) feet in length, except as the Planning Commission considers necessary to secure efficient use of land or desired features of a street pattern. In blocks more than eight hundred (800) feet in length, the Planning Commission may require one or more public crosswalks of not less than ten (10) feet in width to extend entirely across the block at locations deemed necessary. Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where fronting on major streets, limited access highways, railroads, or where prevented by topographical conditions or size of the property, in which case the Planning Commission may approve a single tier of lots of minimum depth. 9-4 LOTS (Ord. 997, 6-11-15)    The size, shape, and orientation of lots shall be such as the Planning Commission deems appropriate for the type of development, use contemplated, and shall be properly related to the topography of the land and character of the surrounding development. Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at a right angle to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines. All setback and lot requirements contained in Section 13-4 shall be applied. 9-5 FLAG LOTS   A residential subdivision shall not consist of more than two (2) flag lots and shall comply with the following criteria:  (a) Shall have access to a public street or right-of-way by means of an ingress/egress easement thirty (30) feet in width. (b) The minimum lot area shall be compatible with the minimum square footage as required by the zoning district in which the development is to occur. The staff shall not be a part of the required lot or parcel area and shall provide frontage on a public street or right-of-way. (c) The setbacks shall be compatible with the minimum setback requirements of the zoning district in which the development is to occur. (d) The front setback shall be measured from the projected lot line of the principle lot parallel to the thirty (30) foot an ingress/egress easement. (e) The rear and side setbacks shall be measured from the property line. (f) Any further subdivision of the property shall require the thirty (30) foot ingress/egress easements to become a dedicated right-of-way for the purpose of the developer, subdivider, or owner to construct a street in accordance with the specifications and requirements provided herein. 45  9-6 LOTS OF RECORD  Where the owner of a lot of record or his successor to the title thereto does not own sufficient land to enable him to conform to the dimensional requirements of this Ordinance, the following exceptions may be allowed:  (a) Where a lot, tract, or parcel of land has an area or width which does not conform to the requirements of the district in which it is located, said lot may be used for a single family dwelling in any residential district, provided the lot to be used has a minimum area of four thousand (4,000) square feet and a minimum lot width at the building line of forty (40) feet and is connected to public sewer. In Commercial/Industrial Districts, uses compatible with the district may be allowed by the Planning Commission. (b) When two or more adjoining lots with a continuous frontage are in a single ownership at the time of the application, and such lots have a frontage or lot area less than is required by the zoning district in which they are located, such lots shall be platted or reparcelled to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum frontage and area requirements of the zoning district. No lot or parcel, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size so the lot width, depth, front, side, rear yard, inner or outer courts, or lot area or other requirements of this Ordinance are not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use. (c) Buildings or structures located on substandard lots of record may be improved only when the addition of adequate plumbing is required by the laws and ordinances of the City of Saraland. 9-7 SUBSTANDARD LOTS OF RECORD  Yard requirements shall be modified subject to the following conditions:  (a) On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided on each public street or right-of-way. (b) An unroofed porch shall not project into a required front yard for a distance exceeding five (5) feet. (c) The side yard requirements for substandard lots of record may be reduced for each side yard at the rate of one (1) foot for each four (4) feet by which the lot width lacks fifty (50) feet, provided in no event shall such side yard be reduced to less than five (5) feet on each side. (d) The setback requirements for side yards and/or front yards on corner lots or lots of record where setbacks have not be established shall not apply to any lot where the average setback on residentially developed lots located, wholly, or in part one hundred (100) feet on each side of the such lot and within the same block, zoning district, and fronting on the same streets if such lot is less than the minimum required setback. In such cases, the setback on such lot may be less than the required  46 setback, but not less than the average of the setbacks of the existing developed lots. 9-8 FARM LAND  Other provisions of this Ordinance not withstanding, any tracts of farm land under cultivation, pasture land, or timberland presently being used for such purposes, consisting of at least five (5) acres in size, may continue to be used for such purposes regardless of the zoning district in which it lies. 9-9 YARDS  No part of a yard or other open space required for any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this Ordinance shall be included as part of a yard or open space similarly required for another building. Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its lowest point to the sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary projection of sills, cornices, buttresses, ornamental features, chimneys, flues, and eaves, provided such projections shall not extend more than two (2) feet beyond the yard area requirements. 9-10 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING PER LOT  Every residential building, hotels, motels, condominiums, single family and multi-family dwellings, and duplexes hereafter erected or moved shall be located on a lot and in no case shall there be more than one (1) principal residential building on a lot except as follows:  (a) In any district where multi-family structures, motels, hotels, or two (2) or more residential structures may be permitted on a lot provided no building shall be located closer to another building on the same lot than a distance equal to half the sum of the heights of both buildings. (b) In Flood Hazard areas identified on the National Flood Insurance Rate Maps, the height of a building shall be measured from the floor level of the first habitable story for purposes of this section. In addition, the front or rear of any building may be no closer to the front or rear of any other building than forty (40) feet. The side of any building shall be no closer to the side, front, or rear of any other building than thirty (30) feet. 9-11 ACCESSORY USES  (a) Satellite Receiving Dishes:  Satellite receiving dishes are permitted accessory uses in any district, provided they comply with the setback, height, and other standards provided herein. In any district, the dish shall be located to the rear of the front building line and must be set back ten (10) feet from any interior or rear lot line. Special setbacks indicated herein apply on corner lots. The dish together with the principal and accessory building may not exceed the maximum lot coverage permitted in the district in which it is located. In residential districts where the antenna is detached from the main building, its maximum height may not exceed fifteen (15) feet. When roof mounted, it must conform to the zoning district's height requirements and its installation must be checked for safety by the Building  47 Official. Installation and construction must also comply with the building code. No form of advertising or identification is allowed on the dish or framework other than manufacturers’ small identification plates. (b) Radio and TV Antennas:  Private radio and TV antennas for individual homes or for amateur uses are permitted as accessory structures in any district and may be placed on roofs or in rear or side yards so they do not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of said yard, nor come closer than five (5) feet to any right-of-way or property line. Antennas in excess of the normal height limitations for the zoning district in which they are located are subject to approval and permitting by the Building Official. Said permit shall include a clause which shall indemnify, hold harmless, and protect the City of Saraland against any and all liabilities which may result from the erection and use of such radio and TV antennas. Antennas must be properly constructed in compliance with the requirements of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the American Radio Relay League, Inc. (ARRL), or equivalent standards and good engineering practices as determined by the Building Official. (c) Fall-Out Shelters:  Fall-out shelters are permissible as principal or accessory structures in any zoning district, subject to the following conditions:  (1) If any portion of the structure extends above the ground, the portion above the ground must comply with the yard and lot coverage requirements of the zoning district in which it is located. The plot plan for such shelter shall be approved by the Building Official. (2) If the structure is completely underground, it need not comply with yard requirements or percentage of lot coverage requirements. (3) A fall-out shelter, underground or above ground, shall be confined to a side or rear yard and shall not be located in the front yard between the main building and the street on which it fronts. (4) Fall-out shelters may contain or be contained in other structures or may be    constructed separately. 9-12 ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (Ord. 996, 5-14-15)  Where an accessory structure is attached to the main building, a substantial part of one wall of the accessory structure shall be an integral part of the main building or such accessory structure shall be attached to the main building in a substantial manner by a roof, and therefore, such requirements applicable to the main building shall apply. The lot shall be large enough to accommodate the principal building and the accessory building or  48 building(s) and meet the yard and other district requirements as otherwise provided herein. The principal building and accessory structure must comply with the requirements applicable to the maximum building coverage specified in this Ordinance. In residential districts, a detached accessory structure shall conform to the following requirements:  (a) Shall not be located on a lot by itself, nor be located or extend into the front yard. (b) Shall not be constructed to exceed more than one (1) story or fifteen (15) in height, nor may not exceed more than thirty (30) percent of the rear yard. (c) Shall not be closer than ten (10) feet to the main building, except within an R-4, High Density Single and Multi-Family Residential, district in which it shall not be closer than five (5) feet to the main building. (d) Shall maintain a side yard setback of not less than five (5) feet. (e) Shall maintain a rear yard setback of not less than five (5) feet. 9-13 ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREETS  (a) Access to public streets shall be maintained in accordance with the following requirements:  (i) Each principal use shall be placed on a lot or parcel which provides frontage on a public street having a right-of-way of not less than fifty (50) feet, except where existing public right-of-way is less than fifty (50) feet. (b) In Private Subdivisions, all lots shall maintain access to approved private roadways. 9-14 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE  Subject to the provisions, limitation and prohabitions provided in 9-2, any use of buildings or land existing prior to the enactment of the Land Use and Development Ordinance,757, December 27, 2008, which does not conform to the provisions set forth by the Ordinance shall be allowed to continue as a nonconforming use. 49   ARTICLE X  GENERAL PROVISIONS  Except as hereinafter provided the following shall generally apply:  10-1 SCREENING, LIGHTING, AND SPACE  (a) Protection Buffer:  In any Business or Commercial/Industrial district, an operation not conducted within a building such as drive-in business, outdoor recreation, outdoor storage of materials, and outdoor servicing activities occurs shall be enclosed by a wall or solid fence as a protection buffer or adequate screening. The adequacy of such wall, solid fence or adequate screening shall be determined by the Planning Commission at the site plan review stage. In any district where reference is made requiring a protection buffer for a specified operation, said screening shall, at a minimum, be a wall or fence of a solid appearance, shall be at least six (6) feet in height, and of a construction and design approved by the Planning Commission and/or a staggered double row of Evergreen plantings at least ten (10) feet in width which shall grow to at least ten (10) feet in height and spaced in a manner which after three (3) years will provide an impervious visual barrier. Said protection buffer shall be maintained by the owner of the property in order to conceal such areas or facilities from a residential district adjoining, facing, across a street, in the rear, or on the side of the principal building or use. Every use in any district shall be conducted entirely within a completely enclosed structure, unless expressly exempted from the enclosure requirements of this Ordinance. (b) Lighting:  Outdoor lighting, of all types, shall be directed as to reflect away from all residential dwellings and public rights-of-way. (c) Administration and Enforcement:  The Code Enforcement Officer may cause the removal, replacement, repair, and/or correction at the owner's expense, any screening, lighting, and space improperly maintained. 10-2 USE  No building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, no building or a part thereof be erected, constructed, moved, or altered, except in conformity with the regulations for the zoning district in which the development is to occur, except as otherwise provided herein. It shall be the responsibility of the owner/developer to show proof of compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance. 50   10-3 BUILDING HEIGHT  No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed, or altered so as to exceed the height requirement specified in the regulations for the zoning district in which the development is to occur, except as otherwise provided herein. 10-4 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS  The height requirement for the various districts shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas, penthouses, or domes not used for human habitation, to chimneys, ventilators, skylights, water tanks, parapet walls, cornices, radio and television antennas, or necessary mechanical appurtenances usually carried above thereof level, provided such features are limited to the height necessary for their proper functioning. 10-5 FIRE HAZARDS  (Ord. 906, 2-14-13; 989, 11-13-14)  Outside above ground tanks for the storage of materials that present potential fire hazards including gasoline, diesel fuel, liquefied petroleum gas, oil, flammable liquids or gases shall be restricted to the requirements set forth in this Ordinance and State regulations. The Fire Code Official shall be notified and attend any special exceptions submitted to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. Above ground tanks shall be located in a non-residential zoning district and shall be approved by the Fire Official. Above ground tanks must be equipped with overspill protection and leak detectors. In addition, the following setbacks per the International Fire Code (IFC) apply:  Tank Capacity Distance from Lot line Distance from Building 275 gallons or less 5 feet 5 feet 276-750 gallons 10 feet 5 feet 751-12,000 gallons 15 feet 5 feet  Setbacks: New petroleum tanks over 6,000 gallons shall not be located within 1,500 feet of a residential district, schools, government buildings which serve as occupied office space or public recreational space, to include both enclosed and open air recreational space. The storage, utilization, manufacture of materials, or products ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is permitted. The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) gives these materials a Flammability Ratings of 1 and 2. These products include lubricating and cooking oils and diesel fuel. Oils and diesel fuel must be stored in double-walled (UL Listed) tanks and are subject to the above mentioned setbacks. NFPA Flammability Ratings 3 and 4 which include gasoline, natural gas and propane may be allowed provided the following conditions are met:  (a) Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized or manufactured within completely enclosed buildings or vaults having incombustible exterior walls and  51 protected throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system. The storage, utilization or manufacture of flammable liquids or gases which produce flammable or explosive vapors shall be permitted in accordance with table 10-6 for the exclusive storage of finished products in original sealed containers. (b) The Fire Official must approve aboveground tanks used for outside aboveground storage of products classified as 3 and 4 rated materials. All shall be in accordance with the currently adopted International Fire Code (IFC). 10-6 TOTAL CAPACITY OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS PERMITTED– GALLONS* (Ord. 906, 2-14-13; 989, 11-13-14)  Industries Engaged in Storage and        Above Below Distribution of Such Materials Ground Ground  (a) Rated 1 materials having a flash point  Prohibited  100,000  above 200 degrees Fahrenheit (Example: Lube and Cooking Oils)  (b)  Rated 2 materials having a flash point   Prohibited  40,000 From 100 degrees Fahrenheit to and Including 200 degrees F (Example: Diesel)  (c) Rated 3 & 4 materials having a flash point  Prohibited  20,000 Below 100 degrees F (Example: gasoline, propane, natural gas)  Industries Engaged in Utilization and Manufacture of Such Materials  (d) Rated 1 materials having a flash point  12,000 50,000 above 200 degrees Fahrenheit  (Ord. 778, 5-14-09) (Example: Lube and Cooking Oils)    (e) Rated 2 materials having a flash point 12,000 20,000 From 100 degrees F to 200 degrees F  (Ord. 989, 11-13-14) (Ex: Diesel)  (f) Rated 3 & 4 materials having a flash point 6,000 10,000 Below 100 degrees F (Ex: gasoline, propane, natural gas )    * When flammable gases are stored, utilized or manufactured and measured in cubic feet, the quantity in cubic feet, at (S.T.P. ), permitted shall not exceed three hundred (300) times the quantities listed above. 10-7 ABOVE GROUND STORAGE TANK OVERLAY DISTRICT  52  TOTAL CAPACITY OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS PERMITTED–GALLONS*  (Ord. 1038, 3-24-16)  Industries Engaged in Storage and         Above  Distribution of Such Materials  Ground   (1) Rated 1 materials having a flash point  150,000   above 200 degrees Fahrenheit (Example: Lube and Cooking Oils)  (2) Rated 2 materials having a flash point  150,000   From 100 degrees Fahrenheit to and Including 200 degrees F (Example: Diesel)  (3) Rated 3 & 4 materials having a flash point  150,000   Below 100 degrees F (Example: gasoline,   propane, natural gas)  10-8 WATER POLLUTION   No operation shall discharge, cause to be discharged liquid, or solid waste into public waters unless it is in conformance with the provisions of the Alabama Department of Environmental Management, the Alabama State Board of Health Statutes, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. Plans and specifications for proposed sewage, industrial waste treatment, and disposal facilities shall be submitted to and approval obtained from the Mobile County Health Department and appropriate the permitting agency. The user shall be responsible for meeting the above standards and shall on reasonable request supply the City, County, State, Federal, or other permitting authority with the information necessary to determine compliance with the standards. 10-9 COMPLIANCE  The review of oil and gas exploration and production activities under the requirements of this Ordinance shall not duplicate the regulatory activities of the Alabama Department of Environmental Management, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, or the Alabama State Oil and Gas Board. The Planning Commission shall permit oil or gas exploration and production in any zoning district following administrative review and assurance that all required federal and state permits have been obtained and that adequate environmental safeguards and guarantees required under the permits have been addressed. 53 ARTICLE XI  MINIMUM STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS  11-1 SUITABILITY OF LAND  The Planning Commission shall not approve the subdivision of land if, from adequate investigations conducted by all public agencies concerned, it has been determined that it is not in the best interest of the public or the proposed development is not suitable for platting or subdividing purposes. The design and improvements of all subdivisions and developments shall meet all State and Mobile County Health Department requirements and proof thereof shall be submitted. 11-2 LAND SUBJECT TO FLOODING  Land subject to flooding or inadequately served by drainage facilities shall not be acceptable for development or subdivision unless the owner or sub-divider agrees to make such improvements as will render the land fit for occupancy in conformity with the National Flood Insurance Program. Fill may not be used to raise land in areas subject to flood and/or excessive erosion, unless the fill proposed does not restrict the natural flow of water, advance erosion, and unduly increase flood heights. To ensure proper development in flood prone areas, the Planning Commission shall require the owner/developer to provide elevation and flood profiles sufficient to demonstrate the sites will be free from the danger of flooding. If a stream flows through or adjacent to the proposed subdivision or development, the plat or site plan shall provide for an easement or right-of-way along the stream for a floodway. For the smaller streams, the plat or site plan shall also provide for channel improvement to enable them to carry all reasonable floods within banks. The floor elevations of houses shall be high enough to be above the regulatory flood. The flood way easement shall be wide enough to provide for future enlargement of the stream channel as adjacent areas become more highly developed and runoff rates are increased. Approval will not be given for streets within a subdivision which the Planning Commission determines would be subject to excessive inundation or flooding. 11-3 CONFORMANCE WITH EXISTING PLANS  Proposed improvements in all subdivision developments within the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction shall be in conformance with existing approved plans, maps, ordinances, and design standards of the City of Saraland and/or the Planning Commission. Any subdivision recorded prior to the enactment of this Ordinance shall remain a legal subdivision unless a replat of said subdivision is submitted and approved. 11-4 PENALTIES  The developer, owner, or agent of the owner of any land to be subdivided in the corporate limits extraterritorial planning jurisdiction who transfers, sells, agrees to sell, or negotiates  54 to sell such land by reference to, an exhibition of, or by other use of a plat to subdivide such land before such plat has been approved by the Planning Commission and recorded in the Office of the Probate Judge of Mobile County shall forfeit and pay a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each lot or parcel so transferred or sold, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer, or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties. The City of Saraland, through its attorney or other designated representative, may enjoin such transfer, sale, or agreement by appropriate action. No plat of a subdivision in the corporate limits or its extraterritorial planning jurisdiction shall be filed by a subdivider in the Office of the Probate Judge until it shall have been submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission and such approval entered in writing on the plat by the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, or Secretary of the Commission. The Probate Judge shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision which does not have the approval of the Planning Commission. Any building or structure erected or to be erected in violation of subdivision regulations shall be deemed an unlawful building or structure, and the Building Official may bring action to enjoin such erection or cause it to be vacated or removed. 11-5 EXCEPTIONS  Whenever the strict compliance with these regulations would result in an extraordinary hardship or injustice to the sub-divider because of topography, unusual size or shape of the property, or unusual conditions in surrounding property of development, the Planning Commission may modify, vary, or waive such regulations so the sub-divider may subdivide his property in a reasonable manner provided that such modification, variation, or waiver shall not nullify the intent or purpose of the subdivision regulations, the public welfare, and interest of the City of Saraland shall be protected. Any such variation together with reasons therefore shall be so noted in the minutes of the Planning Commission. In granting modifications, variations or waivers, the Planning Commission may impose such other reasonable conditions as will, in its judgment, justify such modification, variation, or waiver and still substantially maintain the objectives of these regulations. Each modification, variation or waiver of the regulations sought by a sub-divider shall be applied for and acted upon individually by the Planning Commission. The sale or exchange of lots or parcels of land between adjoining property owners may be exempt from these regulations by the Planning Commission, provided no additional lots are created, none of the lots affected by the sale or exchange are reduced below the minimum size requirements of the zoning district in which the division is to occur. No existing easement shall be vacated or moved without the recommendation of the Planning Commission and the acceptance by resolution of the City Council. 11-6 AMENDMENTS  Any section or provision of this Ordinance pertinent to subdivision regulations may be amended, supplemented, or changed in accordance with the same procedure specified in  55 zoning amendments. 11-7 MINIMUM STREET REQUIREMENTS  Major Collector Local Cul-de-Sac  Street Street Street (Turnaround) Alley  Minimum Right-of-Way:  100'  60' 50'  50'  30' (100' diam.) Minimum Pavement2:   As Req’d  36' 27'  28' 20' (80' diam.) Minimum Angle of Intersection:  80o   60o 60o  60o 60o  Minimum Intersection Offset:  150'  150' 150'  150' 150'  Minimum Curb Radius at Intersection:  40'  30' 15'  15' 15'  Minimum Horizontal Curve Radius:  300'  250' 100'  100' 100'  Minimum Reverse Curve Tangent:  100'  100' 100'  100' 100'   1 Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than 600 feet measured from the intersecting street to the center of the turnaround. 2 With curb and gutter. 3 May vary with topography subject to Planning Commission approval. 11-8 IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS  Any proposed streets in a subdivision, planned unit development, mobile home park, apartments, townhouses, condominiums, patio homes, business, commercial, or industrial developments whether such streets are to be private or dedicated for public use shall be paved and adequately drained. This requirement is not subject to modification by the Planning Commission. The  56 developer/owner shall construct such streets in accordance with good engineering practices and the standards prescribed herein in these regulations, as required by the City Engineer or his duly authorized representative, State, County Highway Department, and the department of the respective utility. Except as approved by the Planning Commission for a private subdivision, the full width of the right-of-way shall be graded including the subgrade of the areas to be paved. This requirement may be modified for the purpose of preserving the natural beauty of the area. A base course consisting of at least eight (8) inches of a sand-clay mixture with one hundred percent (100%) standard compaction shall be laid on a soundly prepared subgrade. A prime coat shall be sprayed uniformly over the base course. An approved type wearing surface in conformance with State Highway Standard 416-A one-and-one-half (1-1/2) inches thick compacted shall be laid over the prime coat. If curbs and gutters are required, they must be in conformance with approved State and County Highway Department standards. Private subdivision rights-of-way roads shall comply with all relevant portions of the Private Subdivision Standards contained herein. All grading in the subdivision shall be related to the topography and environmental features of the surrounding area. Unpaved areas within a dedicated street right-of-way shall be graded and seeded in a manner that will enhance the appearance of the environment. All water mains, sanitary sewers and laterals, and storm sewers shall be installed as necessary to prevent the future cutting of the pavement of any street, sidewalk, or other required pavement. 11-9 ISSUANCE OF SITE DISTURBANCE PERMIT  Each person, firm, corporation, utility, entity, or agent thereof engaged in any site preparation and/or construction activities shall acquire a Site Disturbance Permit from the Building Department prior to commencement of such activities as established pursuant to the provisions of this Article and no such activity shall commence prior to the approval of a preliminary plat by the Planning Commission. Fees for said permit shall be as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. 11-10 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS  When all required improvements are installed, the developer/owner shall request a final inspection. Prior to any such request, the developer shall submit a certification froma licensed engineer that all improvements have been properly and adequately installed. Upon receipt of the requested and certification, the City Engineers or his duly authorized representative shall inspect the site to determine if the required improvements are satisfactorily installed according to the plans and specifications. To determine if the streets are installed to minimum design standards, the City of Saraland shall select an independent testing laboratory to make the necessary tests. These tests shall be conducted at the expense of the developer/owner. 11-11 SIDEWALKS (Ord. 990, 11-13-14)   57 It is the intent of this section to require sidewalks be installed on both sides as part of the improvement of all streets prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy in all districts except M-2, General Industrial Districts. Sidewalks are not required in an M-2, General Industrial District, but the developer and/or owner may provide for sidewalks in all or a portion of a development. If the owner and/or developer of a project within an M-2 General Industrial District provides for sidewalks, they may be installed on one (1) or both sides of a street. If sidewalks are required or provided in a development plan, construction of sidewalks, shall comply with the following standards:   Type of Subdivision Sidewalk Width  Low Density Residential 4 feet  High Density Residential 5 feet  Commercial  6 feet  Industrial  6 feet  The developer shall also certify that all installed sidewalks comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements of the Americans With Disabilities Act. 11-12 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS  (a) Connection to Public or Private Water and Sanitary Sewer System:  Developments, individual lots, or parcels shall be properly connected to a public or private community water and sanitary sewer system where such systems borders the development, lot line, or is reasonably available and the appropriate utility has the capacity to provide the service. Otherwise, lots must meet all applicable requirements of the Mobile County Health Department for onsite wells and/or individual septic systems. The lines for both domestic use and fire protection shall be approved by a public or private water supply and constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve all of the lots located within the subdivision. Water wells for purposes other than human consumption may continue to be used. If a well is required for each lot, the location, construction, and use of such well shall also meet the Mobile County Health Department requirements. If a well is to serve more than one lot, a public community water system shall be required. It is the intent of this Ordinance to eliminate by attrition, all existing private wells, and individual septic systems in areas where public or private community water and sanitary sewer systems are available. Therefore, at such time as any private well or individual septic system fails to function properly or must be replaced, the owner must connect to the public or private community water and sanitary sewer system where such systems borders any development, lot line, or are reasonably available and the appropriate utility has the capacity to provide the service. Local ordinances and sewer regulations as adopted by the City are applicable. 11-13 SPECIAL PROVISIONS  (a) Utility Placement:  58 Water, sewer, gas, electric power, telephone, cable tv, and other utility lines shall be installed underground by the developer and/or owner in all new residential, commercial, or industrial developments, expansions and/or renovations of existing said developments shall be connected to a central distribution system, unless for good reasons other than cost, the Planning Commission approves a modification or waiver of this requirement in part or in whole, or if a special condition requires otherwise. (b) Drainage and Utility Easements:  Easements having a minimum width of ten (10) feet and located along the side or rear lot lines shall be provided as is necessary to utility lines, underground mains, and cables. Where a development or subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water or drainage right-of-way of adequate width to accommodate normal runoff. (c) Location of Fire Hydrants: Roadway fire hydrants shall be installed along each street at the center of each block and at one corner of each roadway intersection, provided, however, that in no event shall fire hydrants be spaced so that any fire hydrant is located more than six hundred (600) feet from another fire hydrant. The water supply and pressure shall be sufficient to provide adequate fire protection and the future needs of the intended land use. Additional fire hydrant placement may be required on the interior of developed lots pursuant to local ordinance and fire regulations as adopted by the City. (d) Location of Street Lighting:  In all multi-family developments and subdivsions, lighting shall be installed at all intersections, curves, and cul-de-sacs. If additional lighting is consistent with safety and other community needs are deemed necessary, the Building Department may require the sub-divider or subdivider to present a street lighting plan developed in conjunction with the appropriate utility company having jurisdiction within the area. (e) Placement of Street Signs:  Appropriate permanent type street name signs shall be placed at all intersections within all subdivisions. The developer may select signs which will be in keeping with the theme of the development, subject to approval of the City Engineer. (f) Location of Concrete Monuments and Pins:  Right-of-way and property line monuments shall be placed in each subdivision. Concrete monuments three-and-one-half (3-1/2) inches square and two (2) feet long shall be driven flush with the grade at the intersection of all street rights-of-way and radius points. Iron pins one-half (½) inch in diameter and two (2) feet long shall be driven flush   59 with the grade at each lot corner and at each point where the property line changes direction. (g) Annexation Provision for Extraterritorial Planning Jurisdiction Subdivisions:  Proposed residential and/or commercial subdivisions located in the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction which are contiguous to the corporate limits, shall be required to annex into the City of Saraland prior to approval of said subdivision, if it is deemed by the Planning Commission to be in the best interest of the City. 60   SECTION B     ZONING DISTRICTS   61 ARTICLE XII  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS  12-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS  The City of Saraland is hereby divided into zoning districts as described below and as shown on the official Zoning District Map, for the purpose of:  (a) Providing a residential environment free of incompatible uses and safe from natural and manmade hazards. (b) Promoting, where possible, planned residential, commercial, and industrial areas in appropriate locations with appropriate standards and minimum service cost to local government. (c) Providing a compact convenient urban pattern for urban areas. (d) Providing a level of flexibility of control sufficient to promote innovation and creativity in community development and to encourage maximum living comfort and convenience at the lowest cost. (e) Promoting the Comprehensive Plan for the City of Saraland. 12-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS  (a) R-l, Low Density Single Family Residential District:  This district is provided to afford opportunity for choice of low density, suburban residential environment consisting of single family residences on large parcels of land. (b) R-1A, Patio:  This district is provided as a medium density, single family  (c) R-2, Medium Density Single Family Residential District:  This district is intended as a medium density single family, urban residential environment consisting of single family residences on lots of a moderate size. (d) R-3, Limited Multi-Family Residential District:  The purpose of this district is to provide a medium high density single family structure or two to four family units to a building structure. (e) R-4, High Density Single and Multi-Family Residential District:  The intent of this district is to provide opportunity for high density residential development in specified areas. 62  Within this district it is also considered suitable to include other uses of a type deemed to be compatible with a good, high density living environment by providing for needed community services. (f) R-5, Mobile Home Residential District:  The intent of this district is to provide space at appropriate locations consistent with community objectives for the establishment of mobile home parks and subdivisions which provide for the establishment of permanent mobile homes and for the amenities conducive to an adequate living environment. When available, public water and sewer facilities are required. Where lots are equal to Mobile County Health Department requirements for private wells and individual septic systems, private wells and individual septic systems may be allowed if public water and sewer is available. 12-3 BUSINESS DISTRICTS  (a) B-1, Local Business District:  This district is intended to provide for limited retail convenience goods and personal service establishments in residential neighborhoods and to encourage the concentration of these uses in one location for each residential neighborhood rather than in scattered sites occupied by individual shops throughout a neighborhood. (b) B-2, General Business District:  This district is intended to provide opportunity for activities causing noise and heavy traffic, not considered compatible in the more restrictive business district. These uses also serve as a regional, as well as, a local market and require location in proximity to major transportation routes. (c) B-3, Professional Business District:  This district is established to provide opportunity for business establishments of a professional nature and is restricted to offices and businesses which provide specific corporate functions or professional services to the general public, but not the sale of goods or services at retail or wholesale. 12-4 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS  (a) M-1 Light Industrial District:  The purpose of this Light Industrial District is to provide a suitable protected environment for manufacturing, research and wholesale establishments which are clean, quiet and free of hazardous or objectionable emissions, and generate little industrial traffic. Industrial parks should be encouraged. Locations should be in accordance with comprehensive plans. 63  (b) M-2 General Industrial District:  It is the intent of this district to provide opportunity for the location of industrial, manufacturing, processing, warehousing, or research and testing operations that, due to employment of heavy equipment or machinery or to the nature of the materials and processes employed, may require extensive sites for storage, parking, and major transportation facilities. It is further the intent of this section to protect appropriate sites from encroachment by incompatible uses through the establishment of regulations that would permit manufacturing and heavy industry to function in proximity to dissimilar uses. The M-2 General Industrial District regulations are intended to promote the health, safety, welfare, comfort and convenience of the users of this district as well as the inhabitants of the surrounding districts. (Ord. 779, 5-14-09, Ord. 990, 11-13-14)  12-5 MEDICAL DISTRICT (Ord. 937, 11-25-13)  Intent: This district is intended to provide, to assist, and encourage the development of medical institutions and complementary land uses and professional services in a campus setting based on a long range master plan with companion systems of parking, traffic flows, service and material deliveries, landscaping, building heights, pedestrian connections, and building form. The allowances and regulations in this Medical District supersede any and all conflicting City regulations. Size: The minimum size of a medical district shall be 50 acres. A Medical District can be comprised of multiple parcels owned by different entities. Permitted Uses: The MD shall specifically allow by right the following uses: 1. Full service hospital and all supporting activities 2. Medically related professional offices, clinics, and laboratories 3. Cancer treatment center 4. Professional offices 5. Nursing homes and convalescent centers 6. Heliport 7. Parking structures 8. Medically related out-patient services including surgery and diagnostic services 9. Independent living and assisted living facilities 10. Places of Worship 11. Retail business 12. Food services integrated into a hospital setting 13. Restaurants 14. Hotels and places of lodging 15. Fitness center 16. Drugstore and pharmacy 17. Banks and financial institutions Prohibited Uses: Any industrial use, tattoo and body piercing, non-chartered financial  64 institutions, sexually orientated businesses, pawn shops, automotive parts, and automotive repair. Uses on Appeal: In the event that a proposed use is not allowed by right in the MD, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hear requests and render a decision of approval or denial. The basis of the decision shall be in general conformance with the use characteristics that are expressly permitted by right in the MD. Master Plan Required: Due to the size and specialized nature of Medical Districts, any Medical District in the City of Saraland will be considered a major geographical section or division of the city, as the term is utilized in Alabama Code 11-52-10, and the approval of any Medical District shall serve as an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan. Any application for MD zoning shall be accompanied by a master plan. The master plan shall show the location of all proposed structures, building heights, setbacks, proposed parking lots and structures, location of stormwater management, ingress/ egress and proposed signage for the District (excluding individual buildings). The master plan shall be accompanied by a narrative providing, in general terms: a development schedule, a discussion regarding proposed uses, and generalized utility plans. The approved master plan shall govern the development and build out of the subject property. The master plan can be amended independently of a zoning change application, as conditions warrant, after the approval of the initial MD. Amendment requests shall require a public hearing by the Planning Commission in conformance with Alabama Code 11-52-10, and the Planning Commission shall render the final decision on the master plan amendments. All building permit requests shall be in substantial conformance with the approved master plan. Site Plan Review: The Building Official is authorized to administratively issue building permits upon finding that the site plan submitted with the building permit request substantially conforms to the approved master plan. MD Regulations: The following maximum standards apply to development in the MD. 1. Building Heights: The following maximum heights shall apply:  1. Hospital Tower(s): 150 feet, excluding mechanical equipment, elevator towers, and uninhabited architectural features such as clock towers and parapet walls. 2. Parking Garage(s): 150 feet. 3. Medical Office Building(s): 150 feet. 4. All Other Buildings: 65 feet. 2. Setbacks: Setbacks for the MD apply only to vertical structures and are as follows:  1. Front Setback: 25’ for the first 65 feet of building height; 50 feet for all buildings taller than 65 feet. 2. Side Setbacks: 10 feet. 3. Rear Setbacks: 20 feet. 4. Corner Side Setback: 15 feet. 65 3. Lot Coverage: The maximum lot coverage for all lots within the MD shall be 90%. Minimum Lot Area: The minimum individual lot in the overall MD shall be 15,000 square feet. Parking Requirements: The required parking for the MD shall be as follows:  1. A hospital, which includes all ancillary uses within the hospital building, shall provide 2 parking spaces for every bed. Non-contributing floor area such as hallways, restrooms, and similar shall not count towards the required parking. 2. All uses not located in a unified hospital building shall adhere to the City’s general parking requirements. Landscaping: A minimum of 10% of the site shall be landscaped. Landscaping materials shall adhere to the City’s ordinance. Stormwater retention facilities shall count towards the landscaping requirement provided that the retention facility has a fountain and are visible from public right-of-ways. Pedestrian Connections: All sites in the MD shall make accommodations for pedestrians with dedicated sidewalks at least 6 feet wide meeting ADA standards. Lighting: Parking lot lights in the MD shall be no greater than 35’ in height and shall be of “shoe box” and sharp cut-off angle design. Signage: In general the sign ordinance of the City of Saraland shall govern signage in the MD, except as provided below:  1. Digital or Electronic Signage: The use of electronic or digital technology in on-premise signage is permitted and allowed and is calculated as part of the allowable sign area, subject to the following limitations and restrictions which are in addition to and intended to supplement all other applicable requirements:  1. All electronic or digital signs shall be programmed so that the message or image on the sign changes no more often than once every eight (8) seconds. 2. All electronic or digital signs shall be programmed so that there are no effects of movement, blinking, animation, scrolling, flashing, or similar effects in the individual images. A change of message shall occur simultaneously on the entire sign. 3. All electronic or digital signs shall be equipped with automatic level controls to reduce light levels at night and under cloudy and other darkened conditions, in accordance with the following:  4. The maximum brightness levels for such signs shall notexceed seven thousand six hundred and eighty (7,680) nits when measured from the sign's face at its maximum brightness, during daylight hours. 66 5. The maximum brightness levels for such signs shall not exceed one thousand nine hundred and twenty (1,920) nits when measured from the sign's face at its maximum brightness, between sunset and sunrise, as those times are determined by the National Weather Service. 6. Any electronic or digital sign that malfunctions, fails, or ceases to operate in its usual or normal programmed manner, causing motion, movement, flashing or any similar effects, shall be restored to its normal operation. 7. Any electronic or digital sign shall apply towards the total allowable signage for the subject site and/ or building. 8. There shall be allowed one (1) electronic or digital sign for entire proposed MD district. 9. The electronic or digital sign allowed shall be a maximum of 100 feet in height and an area of 400 square feet. 2. Monument Sign Allowances:  1. Minimum setbacks. All signs and sign structures must be located at least eighteen (18) inches from right-of-way or ten (10) feet from any side property line. 2. Permitted number: Maximum of two (2) signs per public road intersection for a MD district signage. 3. Maximum size and height: The maximum area for each MD District sign at public road intersections shall be 250 square feet. The maximum height shall be 20 feet. Individual lot monument signage shall adhere to the City of Saraland’s sign ordinance. 3. Wall Signs:  1. For a hospital tower or a mixed use hospital tower/medical office building exceeding eighty-five (85) feet in height in designated habitable space, the maximum square footage for a wall sign shall be one thousand four hundred (1,400) square feet. All other proposed wall signs shall adhere to the City of Saraland’s sign ordinance. 4. Directional Signs:  1. All hospital related directional signage in the MD shall have a maximum height of 36 inches and shall have a maximum area of three (3) square feet. There shall be no maximum number of hospital related directional signs. All other directional signs shall adhere to the City of Saraland’s sign ordinance. 12-6 RESERVED    67   12-7 ABOVE GROUND STORAGE TANK OVERLAY DISTRICT  (Ord. 1038, 3-24-16)  Purpose: These regulations shall provide procedures applicable to the location and construction of new above ground oil storage tanks on and after the effective date of the amendment adopting these regulations, in addition to the requirements otherwise applicable under other provisions of this ordinance to such tanks. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the requirements of the section and the other requirements of the provisions of the Saraland Land Use & Development Ordinance, the requirements of this section shall be controlling and shall govern. Regulations: If the proposed Tank is subject to federal or state best management practices regulations with respect to vapor, emissions, and/or odor control, the application for Planning Approval shall include a statement as to the relevant regulatory authority or authorities and a summary of any equipment and technology being implemented to comply with such regulatory requirements. Change in Oil Product Classification: Applicant may only store an Oil product with a different NFPA 30 classification than the NFPA Classification listed in the application for planning approval for the Tank after providing written notice to the City of Saraland Building Department of the change and engineering verification that the Tank complies with the NFPA 30 requirements for the new product Classification. If any section, subsection, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption and publication as required by law. Location: The overlay district will be located on the North side of Radcliff Road bordered by the existing Railroad and to a point three-hundred (300) feet from the Water Canal, as shown by zoning map. 68 ARTICLE XIII  DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS  The following limitations and requirements are hereby placed on uses in each district established by this Article in accordance with the intent of this Ordinance. 13-1 GENERAL  The following provisions apply, unless otherwise provided herein, to all residential districts:  (a) Uses Permitted:  Customary accessory structures; satellite receiving dishes, gardens, playgrounds, parks; public buildings including schools and libraries; agriculture or farming, including horticulture. Plant nurseries, market gardening, field crops and orchards. (See Home Occupations as defined in Article XXXI, Section 31-1). (b) Uses Permitted by Special Exception:  Certain public and semi-public uses are essential and desirable for the general convenience and welfare but may not fit compatibly within residential neighborhoods. The following public and semi-public uses may be permitted within residential districts by special exception when it is established through site plan review that the location, design, and proposed activities will not adversely affect the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the surrounding neighborhood. Uses permitted by special exception in residential districts are:  (1) Church schools, private or parochial elementary, high schools having a curriculum approximately the same as ordinarily given in public elementary and high schools and meeting all standards of the State Board of Education for instruction and site size. (2) Churches, synagogues, and other places of worship including parish houses, rectories, and other facilities normally incidental to places of worship but excluding funeral homes. (3) Cultural activities not carried on as a gainful business, including art galleries, libraries, and museums. (4) Convalescent and nursing homes for the aged. (5) Recreation facilities, country clubs, community centers, and clubs drawing substantial numbers of users from the immediate neighborhood in which they are located, excluding residential accommodations and any activity carried on as a gainful business other than incidental concessions. (6) Day care centers, whether public or private, kindergartens, or play schools, upon approval of the State and the Department of Human Resources. 69  (c) Uses Prohibited:  Any use not permitted or permitted by special exception, except as otherwise determined under Section 13-3. Commercial and Industrial uses such as garages, repair, storage yards, warehouses, buildings used as correctional institutions, and industrial type operations of any kind. 13-2 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES (DEFINED)  The uses permitted in each of the zoning districts are listed in the Table of Permitted Uses, Article XXXV, in three categories, as follows:  (a) Uses by Right:  Uses in the Table identified by (R) are permitted by right, subject to the conditions specified in the Table or otherwise provided herein. (b) Uses Requiring Planning Approval:  Uses in the Table identified by (P) are permitted upon approval by the Planning Commission of the location and the site plan appropriate with regard to transportation, access, water supply, waste disposal, fire, police protection, and other public facilities; as not causing undue traffic congestion or creating a traffic hazard; and in harmony with the orderly and appropriate development of the district in which the development is to occur. (c) Special Exceptions:  Uses in the Table identified by (S) are subject to the same approval of location and site plan as uses requiring planning approval; in addition, these uses are subject to approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment in accordance with the provisions provided herein. 13-3 COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS  Any use permitted in any district whether by Right, Planning Approval, Administrative Approval, or as a Special Exception, must comply with the requirements of the district in which it is located, unless a variance from such requirements is specifically requested and granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment or unless approved under the Planned Unit Development with modifications as required by the Planning Commission provisions of this Ordinance. (a) Planning Approval:  Any use requiring planning approval is subject to review and approval of the Planning Commission. Each application to the Planning Commission for approval must be accompanied by a site plan prepared by the applicant or his agent. The Planning Commission shall review the application at its next meeting and take into consideration all existing regulations and ordinances of the City of Saraland, as well  70 as, recommendations from the Code Enforcement Officer, the Mobile County Health Department, and any other such local officials. The Planning Commission may approve the use request as is, it may approve it with conditions, or it may deny it. In any case where a requested use is not specifically referred to in the Table of Permitted Uses, its status shall be determined by the Planning Commission by reference to the most clearly analogous use or uses that are specifically referred to in the Table of Permitted Uses. When the status of a use has been so determined by the Planning Commission, such determination shall thereafter have general application to all uses of the same type and shall be added to the Table of Permitted Uses. (b) Special Exception:  Any use permitted by special exception is subject to review and approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment. Each application shall be accompanied by a site plan which if approved shall then be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and consideration. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall consider the recommendations of the Code Enforcement Officer and make them a part of the record of any public hearing held on an application for a special exception, prior to making a decision on the application. If the decision of the Board of Zoning Adjustment is not consistent with such recommendations, the minutes of the meeting at which such decision is made shall set forth the particular reasons for deviating from such recommendations. (c) Appeals:  Appeals of any final decision or judgment of the Planning Commission or Board Zoning Adjustment shall be made within fifteen (15) days thereafter to the Circuit Court of Mobile County, Alabama and shall be tried de novo. Upon the filing of such an appeal the aggrieved party shall file a written notice with the Planning Commission or the Board of Zoning Adjustment, from which such an appeal is taken, specifying the judgment or decision from which such appeal is taken. 13-4 REQUIREMENTS FOR LOT AREA, WIDTH, COVERAGE, DENSITY, AND OTHER FACTORS  The following shall apply in districts as listed:    Minimum Minimum Maximum     Lot Lot Width   Lot  Area     At Setback  Coverage  Maximum     (Sq Ft)     Line     (%)*   Density**    R-l, Low Density Residential: Single Family:  With public water & sewer 15,000 100 30 2.5  With septic tank & well 43,560 150 30 1.0  With septic tank & Public water supply 20,000 100 30 2.0  With public sewer & well 20,000 100 30 2.0  R-1A, Patio Residential:  Single Family 5,000 50 38 8.0  R-2, Medium Density Residential:  Single Family 10,500 75 35 3.0  R-3, High Density Residential:  Single Family 7,500 60 35 3.5  R-4, High Density Single and Multi-Family Residential:  Single Family 7,500 50 30 4.6 Two-Family 10,000 80 45 8.0 Multiple Family 7,500*** 85 45 14.0 (Ord. 774. 11-25-08)  Extraterritorial Planning Jurisdiction:  Single Family 12,000****  80 30 3.5  * Does not apply to lots of record smaller than required in the district in which they are located. ** Dwelling units per gross acre to be developed. *** For one (1) unit plus two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet for each additional unit. **** Applies to lots contained within an extraterritorial planning jurisdiction subdivision in which the size of the development exceeds ten (10) acres. 72 13-5 REQUIREMENTS FOR LOT AREA, WIDTH, COVERAGE AND OTHER  FACTORS FOR PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC BUILDINGS:  (a) Minimum Lot Area and Lot Width:  None specified. Only that the lot be large enough to provide the yards specified herein. (b) Yard Regulations:  (1) Front Yard:  Each lot shall provide a front yard with a minimum depth of forty (40) feet. (2) Side Yard:  Each lot shall have a side yard of a minimum of thirty-five (35) feet on each side. (3) Rear Yard:  Each lot shall have a rear yard with a minimum depth of thirty-five (35) feet. (c) Maximum Building Height:  No structure shall exceed a height of thirty-five (35) feet, except a church may have a maximum height of fifty (50) feet, provided one (1) foot shall be added to all minimum yard requirements for each additional foot of height in excess of thirty-five (35) feet (does not apply to a church sanctuary). (d) Maximum Building Coverage:  The maximum land covered by a building shall be fifty (50) percent of the total lot area; a minimum of twenty (20) percent of the lot area shall be maintained as a landscaped common area. 73 A rt er ia l an d C o ll ec to r S tr ee ts L o ca l S tr ee ts a n d S er v ic e R o ad s A rt er ia l an d C o ll ec to r S tr ee ts L o ca l S tr ee ts a n d S er v ic e R o ad s 13-6 SETBACKS  MINIMUM DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS  The following front, rear, and side yard setbacks shall apply in districts as outlined, except as it concerns the specific adopted setbacks for individual Planned Unit Developments: Corner Lot    Front Yard Rear Yard Side Yard Side Yard                                         R-1 35 35  35  10  40 25 R1-A 25 25  25  10  30  20 R-2 30 30  25  10  35 20 R-3 25 25  25  10  30 20 R-4(Single) 30 30  30  a  30 20 R-4(Two) 25 25  25  6  25 20 R-4(Multi) 25 25  25  a  25 20 B-1 30 20  20   b  20 10 B-2 30 20  b   b  30 25 B-3 30 20  b   b  20 10 M-1 50 30  c  c  50 30 M-2    50  30   c         c   50  30 FH *  *   *      * *  * (Ord. 774, 11-25-08)  Extraterritorial Planning Jurisdiction  Single-family 30  30   30     10   30  20   * Same as use district which it overlays. (a) Ten (10) feet plus two (2) additional feet for each floor above two stories, but not exceeding twenty (20) feet; when the dwelling unit faces the side yard, the dwelling unit shall not be less than twenty- five (25) feet from the side lot line. (b) None, except it will be five (5) feet if abutting an alley, and when abutting a residential district it shall be not less than thirty (30) feet. (c) None, except it will be five (5) feet if abutting on alley, and when abutting a residential district it shall be not less than fifty (50) feet,  13-7 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT  Except as otherwise provided herein, no structure shall exceed two and a half (2 1/2) stories or thirty-five (35) feet in height in an R-1, Low Density Single Family, R-2, Medium Density Single Family, or R-3, High Density Single Family Residential, district or more than four (4) stories or fifty (50) feet in height in any R-4, High Density Single and Multi-Family Residential, Business, or Commercial/Industrial, district. Structures of more than four (4) stories or fifty (50) feet may be permitted subject to the approval of the City Council upon recommendation of the Planning Commission. (See Definition of Height, Building, Article   74 VIII, Definition of Terms). 13-8 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (Ord. 1069, 12-8-16)  In all nonresidential districts where facilities are permitted shall comply with the following minimum standards:  (a) Lots shall be of sufficient size to be used for the purpose intended, provide adequate parking and loading facilities in addition to space required for conduct of other operation of the business, and otherwise comply with the provisions provided herein. (b) The minimum lot size for marinas shall be one (1) acre and shall be constructed above mean sea level. (c) No entrances or exits shall direct traffic into adjacent residential districts. (d) Noise, air pollutants including dust emissions, and surface runoff shall not exceed background levels by more than ten percent (10%). (e) Uses in all business districts must comply with all applicable health and safety standards, including sanitary facilities, paved and landscaped parking areas, and other requirements of this Ordinance, as well as, State and Federal regulations. (f) Nonpermanent structures such as trailers, sheds, and other such buildings used for business purposes may be permitted in business districts on a temporary basis pending construction of a permanent building and shall be removed immediately upon completion of construction. Such structures may be permitted for a three (3) month period, renewable upon written request from the business owner, up to a maximum of one (1) year. (g) All business structures shall be so designed as to present an aesthetically pleasing appearance and is generally compatible with existing buildings in the district, except those less desirable in appearance that have been grandfathered under Article IX, Section 9-14 of this Ordinance. (h) In business districts located adjacent to Highway 158, and located within four thousand (4,000) feet of Highway 158 intersection of I-65, non-permanent inventory structures used for storage inventory, such as trailers, may be permitted upon a temporary basis on approval and permitting by Building Official. Such non- permanent inventory structures may be permitted for a four (4) month period renewable upon written request from business owner, up to a maximum of one (1) year. The permit application shall provide a site plan indicating the location of the non-permanent inventory structure. The approved location will be selected so as to minimize the impact of noise, light, traffic flow disturbance, visual clutter and related disturbance to any adjoining property. 75   13-9 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR M-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS (Ord. 990, 11-13-14)  In all property zoned M-2, General Industrial District, the following provisions shall apply:  (a) In determining compliance with Article XI, Minimum Standards and Required Improvements, Section 11-7, curb and gutter installation is not required for any development whose use or contemplated use is a traditional industrial use (see 12- 4), as long as the proposed development is compliant with Article XVIII, Drainage and Storm Sewers Erosion and Sediment Control Storm Water Detention provisions. (b) The provisions of Article XI, Section 11-13(a), shall not apply in M-2 General Industrial Districts, except that water and sewer utility placement will be required to comply with the provisions of 11-13(a). (c) The provisions of Article XIX, Sections 19-4(f)(3), 19-4(f)(9), 19-5, 19-7(b), 19- 8, and 19-12 shall not apply in M-2 General Industrial Districts. (d) All off-street parking areas in an M-2 General Industrial District, unless compliant with Section 19-11(b) – (e), shall be screened from view from public streets, as well as practicable, by the use of earthen berms or natural forested areas or a combination thereof, provided that approved driveways enabling access to public roads may extend through such buffer zones. If earthen berms are utilized, in order to prevent berm erosion, the berm will either be sodded, appropriately landscaped or contain sufficient natural vegetation to ensure against erosion. 76 SECTION C SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS   77 ARTICLE XV  PROCEDURES FOR SITE PLAN REVIEW  15-1 USE AND APPLICABILITY  The provisions of this Article shall be required for all residential developments involving the construction of two (2) or more dwelling units, apartments, town homes, condominiums; business, commercial, and industrial structures; all existing structures which increases the gross floor area by thirty (30) percent or more, construction of a park, public way, open space, public building or structure, or public utility, whether publicly or privately owned, and other uses as required by the Planning Commission. 15-2 SPECIAL PROVISIONS  The following shall apply:  (a) Water, sewer, gas, electric power, telephone, cable tv, and other utility lines shall be installed underground by the developer and/or owner in all new residential, commercial, and industrial developments, expansions, and/or renovations of existing said developments shall be connected to a central distribution system, unless for good reasons other than cost, the Planning Commission approves a modification or waiver of this requirement in part or in whole, or if a special condition requires otherwise. (b) Size of properties reserved or laid out for business, commercial, or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service and parking facilities required by the type of use and development contemplated. (c) A site plan review shall be accomplished by the recommendation of the Building Inspector and approval of the Planning Commission to assure compliance with the provisions of Land Use and Development Ordinance in conformity with its purpose as stated in Article I, as well as, applicable Building and Fire Codes, latest edition, and sewer regulation. (d) Requirements for commercial buildings:  Architectural interest in the main structure shall be accomplished by the use of a repeating pattern of change in color, texture, and material modules. At least one of these items shall repeat horizontally. All elements shall repeat at intervals of no more than 30’, either horizontally or vertically. Colors shall be harmonious with development in the impacted area, and bright or brilliant colors used only for accent. Predominant exterior building materials shall be of high quality. These include, but are not limited to, brick, wood, sandstone or stucco, other native stone and tinted/textured concrete masonry units. Unpainted, smooth faced concrete block, non-architectural grade, tilt-up concrete panels or prefabricated steel panels are prohibited as the predominant exterior building materials on front façade. Façade colors shall be of low reflectance, subtle, or colors consistent with the surrounding impacted area or natural environment. Building trim may feature brighter colors but neon tubing is not allowed as an accent material. Neon lighting   78 shall not be used to accent eaves, edges, roof tops, or add unnecessary elaborateness to a structure. (e) Said approval shall be authorization to begin work, subject to the issuance of a Site Disturbance Permit. Such approval shall become void upon one (1) year from the date of approval if no such permit has been acquired and/or any building or construction activities have occurred. (f) When all required improvements are installed, the developer/owner shall call for a final inspection. The Building Inspector/Sewer/Fire/Water/Engineer Officials or their duly authorized representative shall inspect the site to determine if the required improvements are satisfactorily installed according to the plans and specifications. 15-3 PLAN CONTENT  The plan shall contain all information as reflected on the current departmental check list for a site plan which may be modified at the discretion of the Building Inspector when applicable. 15-4 WAIVER  The Building Inspector may waive certain requirements contained in this Article if, in his opinion, the requirements are not essential to a proper decision on the project; or, he may supplement the list with other requirements deemed necessary to clarify the nature of the proposed development. 15-5 FEES  An application for site plan review shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. 15-6 ISSUANCE OF SITE DISTURBANCE PERMIT  Each person, firm, corporation, utility, entity or agent thereof engaged in any site preparation and/or construction activities shall acquire a Site Disturbance Permit from the Building Department prior to commencement of such activities as established pursuant to the provisions of this Article and no such activity shall commence prior to the approval of a site plan by the Planning Commission. Fees for said permit shall be as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. 15-7 REQUIREMENT OF BOND  Whenever a person, firm, corporation, developer or other entity proposes to develop a commercial site that, in the opinion of the Building Department constitutes a land disturbing activity which may pose a risk of drainage and/or siltation damage outside the boundaries of the project, such person, firm, corporation, developer or other entity conducting the land disturbing activity shall be required to submit a performance bond to the City prior to the issuance of a site disturbance permit. At the time of approval of the site plan by the Planning Commission, the bond shall become   79 effective and shall extend for a period of at least two (2) years following the issuance of the certificate of occupancy by the City. The bond shall be in the amount of twenty-five percent (25%) of the total cost for the performance of all site work on said the location with bond to cover such drainage, erosion and siltation damage, if any. The Building Inspector or other administrative official as designated by the City Council shall determine the prescribed bond, as well as, the adequacy and the security thereon. 15-8  RELEASE OF BOND  At the expiration of two (2) years from the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy, the Building Inspector shall determine if the drainage design implementation of the project has:  (a) Been performed in accordance and functions within the parameters of the design standards as set forth by the project engineer. (b) Had any impact on any streams, waterways, or third parties that have been minimized. (c) Received from the project engineer a certificate of performance which states the drainage functions have been constructed in accordance with the plans, specifications, and engineering guidelines. Upon the Building Inspector’s receipt and evaluation thereof of the criteria as enumerated in Section 15-7 and upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City shall release the developer and/or the bond holder from further obligations under said bond. If it is determined that the requirements of this section have not been met then the bond may be extended for one six (6) month interval to allow the developer and/or bond holder additional time to correct the deficiencies which prohibited the release of bond. If a site contractor is unable and/or unwilling to satisfy the deficiencies as enumerated by the Building Inspector, the bond shall be forfeited with the bond being payable to the City of Saraland for the direction of such work and/or activities necessary for the completion of the improvements. The developer and/or bond holder of the property thereof shall be liable for any additional cost incurred. 15-9 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT  Upon approval of the site plan, either as submitted or with changes and/or special conditions required by the Planning Commission, the Building Official may issue a building permit for a portion or all of the proposed development provided the application is in compliance with all applicable City, County, as well as, State and Federal requirements. 80 SECTION D PARKING REQUIREMENTS    81 ARTICLE XVI  PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DISTRICTS  16-1 GENERAL   Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley and shall be equal to the minimum requirements for the specific land use set forth as otherwise provided herein. The required number of parking spaces for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that portion of the parking space required for an existing church whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sunday, may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night or on Sunday. Areas reserved for off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of this Ordinance shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which it serves is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent parking space is provided to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission. Off-street parking in existence prior to the enactment of this Ordinance in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building or use. For existing commercial uses in any business district and other similar areas desiring to expand, but unable for good and sufficient reason to provide parking at the standard required in the following schedule, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may grant relaxation of the strict application of these requirements on appeal, subject to the regulations governing appeals and variances. Where business and multi-family unit developments require large numbers of parking spaces, such spaces may be accommodated in parking decks provided that no such parking deck shall exceed three (3) levels above ground or twenty-five (25%) percent of the height of the principal structure, whichever is greater. A parking deck design shall be compatible with the design of the principal structure and shall be submitted as a part of the overall site plan. The parking deck shall comply with the minimum requirements of this Ordinance. 82 16-2 PARKING SCHEDULE  (a) Dwellings:  Land Use: Parking Requirements:  (1) One and two families: Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit  (2) Multiple: One-and-one-half (1.5) space for each unit (3) Hotels:  (Without restaurants, lounges, One (1) space for each and banquet facilities):         bedroom  (With in-house restaurants, One-and one-half (1.5)space banquet facilities, or for each guest bedroom convention/meeting capabilities):   (4) Motels, Tourist Courts, One-and-a half (1.5)space for and Tourist Homes: each guest bedroom  (5) Mobile Home Courts Two (2) spaces per unit and Parks:  (6) Boarding, Rooming One (1) space for each Houses and Dormitories: guest bedroom  (b) Public Assembly: Parking Requirements:  (1) Churches or Other One (1) space for each four (4)  Places of Worship: seats in the main auditorium or sanctuary. (2) Private Clubs, Lodges One (1) space for each 100 and Fraternal Buildings, square feet of building under (not providing overnight roof accommodations):  (3) Theaters, Auditoriums, One (1) space for each Coliseums, Stadiums, four (4) seats and Similar Places of Assembly:  (4) Libraries, Museums: One (1) space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area     83 (5) Schools, including One (1) space for each four (4) Kindergartens, Play-schools, seats in assembly hall, or one and Day Care Centers: (1) space for each employee, including teachers and admini- strators, whichever is greater, plus five (5) spaces per classroom for high school and colleges  (6) Skating Rinks, Dance Halls, One (1) space for each 200 Pool Rooms and Other Places square feet of floor area of Amusement or Assembly without Fixed Seating Arrangements:  (7) Bowling Alleys: Four (4) spaces for each alley  (c) Health Facilities: Parking Requirements:  (1) Hospitals, Sanitariums One (1) space for each four (4) Nursing Homes, Homes beds, plus one (1) space for for the Aged and Similar each employee on the Institutional Use: maximum shift  (2) Kennels and Animal A parking area equal to thirty Hospitals: (30) percent of the total enclosed or covered area   (3) Medical, Dental and One (1) space for each two Health Offices and hundred (200) square feet of Clinics: floor area used for offices and similar purposes  (4) Mortuaries and Funeral Ten (10) spaces per parlor Parlors: chapel unit, or one (1) space per two (2) seats, whichever is greater  (d) Business: Parking Requirements:  (1) Commercial Establishments Four (4) parking spaces for up and Office (including but not to 400 limited to the square limited to the following): feet of gross floor area, plus one (1) parking space for each Food Stores, Furniture additional 400 square feet of Stores, General Business, of gross floor area, up to five (commercial or personal thousand (5,000) square feet, service establishments catering plus one (1) parking space for to the retail trade, but excluding each additional two hundred food stores): (200) square foot of gross floor area over five thousand (5,000)   84 square foot  Governmental Offices, Office Buildings, (including banks, businesses, commercial and professional offices and buildings but excluding medical, dental and health offices and clinics):  Public Utilities, (such as telephone exchanges and substations, radio and TV stations):  Restaurants, (including bars One and one-fourth  grills, diners, cafes, taverns (1.25) spaces for each night-clubs, lunch counters, each (four) 4 seats and all similar dining and/or drinking establishments):  (e) Shopping Centers: One (1) space per two hundred (200) square foot of gross floor area  (f) Marinas: Two (2) spaces per berth, (also applies to dry storage)  (g) Industries:  (1) Commercial, Manufacturing One (1) space for each and Industrial establishments, employee on the working (not catering to the maximum shift, plus one (1) space retail trade): for each vehicle operating from the premises  (2) Wholesale establishments: One (1) space for every fifty (50) square foot of customer service area, plus two (2) spaces for each three (3) employees on the maximum working shift, plus one (1) space for each company vehicle operating from the premises   (3) Electric Power and Twenty-five (25) percent of  Gas Substations: the parcel on which located or four (4) spaces, whichever is smaller  (h) Any use not specified by these regulations shall require one (1) parking space for   85 each three hundred (300) square feet of gross floor area in the building. Where the use is mixed, total requirements for off-street parking shall be the sum of the requirements for the various uses computed separately. 16-3 DESIGN STANDARDS  (a) Definition:  An off-street parking space is an all-weather surfaced area not in a street or alley and having an area of not less than one hundred seventy-one (171) square feet and minimum dimensions of nine (9) feet by nineteen (19) feet, exclusive of driveways, permanently reserved for the temporary storage of one automobile and connected with a street or alley by an all-weather surfaced driveway which afford unobstructed ingress and egress to each space. (b) Permit:  A site disturbance permit shall be required for any parking area with a design capacity for six (6) or more vehicles. Each person, firm, corporation, utility, entity or agent thereof engaged in any site preparation and/or construction activities shall acquire a Site Disturbance Permit from the Building Department prior to commencement of such activities as established pursuant to the provisions of this Article. Fees for said permit shall be as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. (c) Parking Area Dimensions:  The design and dimensions of the parking area shall be in accordance with the following dimension table and provide for handicapped parking spaces and sidewalk accessibility in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. Curb  Access Angle of Length Stall Driveway Parking Per Car Depth Width   0  23'0" 9'0" 12'0" 20  20'4" 15'0" 11'0" 30  18'0" 17'4" 11'0" 40  14'0" 19'2" 12'0" 45  12'9" 19'10" 13'0" 50  11'9" 20'5" 14'0" 55  11'1" 20'3" 15'6" 60  10'5" 21'0" 18'0" 70  9'8" 21'0" 19'0" 80  9'8" 20'4" 24'0" 90  9'0" 19'0" 24'0"  (d) Width of Two-Way Access Driveways: The minimum width of two-way access driveways within parking areas shall be twenty-four (24) feet. 86  (e) Paving Standards:  Parking spaces and driveways shall be paved to the standards established by the City of Saraland. (f) Drainage:  Off-street parking facilities shall be drained to prevent damage to abutting property and streets to prevent pollutants from draining onto the adjacent lots. Landscaped and perimeter areas shall be so graded as to receive a reasonable portion of the rainfall from the surrounding pavement. Protective curbing placed around landscaped areas shall leave openings for water to flow onto unpaved areas. (g) Off-street Loading and Unloading Space:  Off-street loading/unloading spaces shall be provided as hereinafter required by this Ordinance. (1) Size of Spaces:  Each off-street loading/unloading space shall have minimum dimensions of fourteen (14) feet in height, twelve (12) feet in width, and fifty-five (55) feet in length. However, upon sufficient demonstration a particular loading space will be used exclusively by shorter trucks, the Planning Commission may reduce the minimum length accordingly to as much as thirty-five (35) feet. (2) Connection to Street or Alley:  Each required off-street loading and unloading space shall have direct access to a street or alley or have a driveway which offers satisfactory ingress and egress for trucks. (3) Floor Area More Than Ten Thousand (10,000) Square Feet:  There shall be provided for each hospital, institution, hotel, commercial or industrial building, or similar use requiring the receipt of distribution of materials or merchandise and having a floor area of more than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, at least one (1) off-street loading and unloading space for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor space or fraction thereof. Such space shall be so located as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street, or alley. (4) Floor Area Less than Ten Thousand (10,000) Square Feet:  There shall be provided for each commercial or industrial building requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise and having a floor area of less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, sufficient off-street loading   87 and unloading space, not necessarily a full space if shared by an adjacent establishment, so located as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street, or alley. (5) Location:  All required off-street loading and unloading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building which they are intended to serve or on an adjacent lot when shared with the use occupying said adjacent lot. (6) Permanent Reservation:  Areas reserved for off-street loading and unloading in accordance with the requirements of this Ordinance shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which is served in discontinued or modified, except where equivalent loading and unloading space is provided and approved by the Planning Commission. (h) Off-Street Parking, Loading/Unloading Spaces for Mini Warehouses:  (1) All one-way driveways shall provide for one ten (10) foot travel lane. Traffic direction and parking shall be designated by signing or painting. (2) All two-way driveways shall provide for one ten (10) foot parking lane and two twelve (12) foot travel lanes. (3) Whenever applicable, two (2) parking spaces shall be provided for the manager's quarters plus one (1) additional space for every twenty-five (25) storage cubicles to be located at the project office for use of clients. (j) Storage and Parking of Trailers and Vehicles:  (1) NO MORE THAN ONE COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PER DWELLING SHALL BE PERMITTED. In no case shall a commercial vehicle be used for hauling explosives, gasoline, or liquefied petroleum products. (2) Travel trailers or motor homes, hauling trailers, or boat trailers shall be permitted if parked or stored behind the front building setback line. (3) A travel trailer shall not be occupied either temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in any area, except in a park as authorized herein. (4) A wrecked or disabled vehicle which cannot be moved under its own power shall not be permitted on or near lots with dwelling units. The vehicles shall be classified as junked vehicles and shall be removed to a junk yard at the owner’s expense. 88 SECTION E SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS    89 ARTICLE XVII  PROCEDURES FOR SUBDIVISION REVIEW  17-1 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE  Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land within the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction of the Planning Commission is proposed, the subdivider should consult informally, prior to submittal with the Planning Commission and Mobile County Planning Department to ensure compliance with the required regulations. No fee shall be charged for the review and no formal application shall be required. Any subdivision or development which is to be developed in phases or units shall require a Master Plan of the proposed subdivision or development. The Master Plan shall be of sufficient detail to show the proposed street and lot layout, drainage, utilities, detention, common, recreational, and landscaped areas and shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for approval prior to submitting a preliminary plat for consideration. 17-2 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION  Prior to making any improvements, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning Commission a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision for review in accordance with the following procedure:  (a) Subdivider’s Responsibility - Preliminary Plat:  The Subdivider shall:  (1) File the required application on the prescribed forms. (2) Submit a copy of a warranty deed of the subject property (as proof of ownership). (3) Submit three (3) copies of the preliminary plat. (4) Pay a filing fee as specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. These three (3) items shall be received in the Building Department not less than thirty (30) days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission at which meeting the subdivision plat is to be formally submitted for review. (b) Plat Content:  The preliminary plat shall contain all information as reflected on the current departmental check list for a preliminary plat which may be modified at the discretion of the Planning Commission when applicable. (c) Fees:  An application for preliminary plat review shall be accompanied by the appropriate   90 fee as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. (d) Building Department Review:  The Planning Department shall proceed with the preliminary plat review as follows:  (1) Plat Study:  During the thirty (30) days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting, the Building Department shall transmit one copy of the preliminary plat to the Utilities Board of the City of Saraland and the Fire Department. These shall submit recommendations to the Building Department prior to the initial hearing on the preliminary plat. (2) Notice of Hearing:  The Planning Secretary shall see that notice of the time and place of the hearing on said plat is sent by certified mail to the owner of record, the subdivider, and the owners of record of abutting land at least five (5) days prior to said hearing. (3) Commission Action:  The preliminary plat is considered to be formally and officially submitted at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission at which meeting said plat is to be considered. At this meeting, the Commission may:  (a) Approve the preliminary plat. (b) Conditionally approve the preliminary plat. In this case, the conditions shall be stated in writing. If necessary, the Commission may require the subdivider to submit a revised preliminary plat. (c) Disapproval of the preliminary plat:  If disapproved, the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing, and if possible, recommendations made as to the basis on which the plat will be approved. The subdivider may resubmit the plat at any subsequent regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission in accordance with these regulations. (d) Delayed action on the preliminary plat  The Commission may delay action on the plat up to thirty (30) days; however, the commission shall act to approve or disapprove a subdivision plat within thirty (30) days after its formal submission at a regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting, otherwise, said plat shall be deemed to have been approved and correspondence to that effect shall be issued by the Commission on demand; provided however, the applicant for the Commission's approval may waive this   91 requirements and consent to an extension of such period. In any case, the Commission shall notify the subdivider either verbally or in writing of the action taken at the hearing. If any of the requirements of these regulations are modified or waived, they shall be specified and the reasons therefore given. (e) Appeal of Commission Action  Appeals of any final decision or judgment of the Commission shall be made within fifteen (15) days thereafter to the Circuit Court of Mobile County, Alabama and shall be tried de novo. Upon the filing of such an appeal the aggrieved party shall file a written notice with the Commission specifying the decision or judgment from which such an appeal is taken. (e) Effect of Preliminary Plat Approval:  Approval shall be authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the construction of any improvements, grading of streets, and staking of lots. Said approval shall be authorization to begin work, subject to the acquiring a site disturbance permit prior to commencing any site preparation and/or construction activities, as established pursuant to the provisions in Ordinance 757. Such approval of the final plat shall be valid for a period of one (1) year following the date of such approval. The subdivider shall be responsible for the full installation of the required minimum improvements in the proposed subdivision prior to the submission of the final to the Planning Commission. Preliminary plat approval does not constitute final plat approval nor does it authorize official recording of the plat nor does it constitute or effect an acceptance by the City of Saraland of any street or other open space shown on the plat. 17-3 FINAL PLAT APPLICATION  (a) Plat Content:  The final plat shall conform to the conditions of the approved preliminary plat. It shall show sufficient detailed data to readily determine and to accurately reproduce on the ground the location, bearing and length of every street line, lot line, boundary line, block line, and building line. The plat shall be clearly drawn on any acceptable polyester or cloth tracing sheet 24 x 36 inches in size, at a scale of not less than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, and shall contain all information shown on the current departmental check list for a final plat which may be modified at the discretion of the Building Inspector when applicable. (b) Fees:   92  An application for final plat review shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. Building Department Review:   The Building Department shall proceed with the final plat review as follows:  (1) Plat Study:  During the thirty (30) days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting, the Building Department shall review the final plat for compliance with the subdivision regulations and submit any recommendations to the Planning Commission at its meeting. (2) Commission Action:  The final plat is considered to be formally and officially submitted at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission at which meeting said plat is to be considered. At this meeting, the Commission may:  (a) Approve the final plat. (b) Disapproval of the final plat:  Such action may result if the final plat is found to be in conflict with the approved preliminary plat or with the subdivision regulations. A statement of the reasons for disapproval shall be forwarded by letter to the subdivider and one copy being filed in the records of the City Clerk. No certificate of approval shall be given. The subdivider may resubmit the final plat for hearing after the corrections noted by the Planning Commission have been made. (c) Delayed action on the final plat. The Planning Commission may delay action on the plat up to thirty (30) days. However, the Commission shall act to approve or disapprove the final Plat within thirty (30) days after its formal submission at a regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting; otherwise, such plat shall be deemed to have been approved, and a certificate to that effect shall be issued by the Planning Commission on demand; provided, however, that the applicant for the Commission's approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of such period. (d) In any case, the Planning Commission shall retain one (1) copy of the final plat in its files and shall return one (1) copy of the final plat to the subdivider with indication in writing of the action taken at the hearing. If any of the requirements of these regulations are modified or waived, they shall be specified and the reasons therefore given. 93  (d) Effect of Final Plat Approval:  Approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission shall authorize the owner, or his agent, to have said Plat recorded in the Office of the Judge of Probate. The plat shall be filed prior to the sale of any lot in the subdivision. Copies of all private covenants, deed restrictions, and certifications shall be filed with the final plat. Once approval has been given and endorsed in writing on the plat by the Planning Commission, no changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made on said plat. In the event that any subdivision plat, when recorded, contains any changes, said plat shall be considered null and void, and the Planning Commission shall then file the corrected plat as approved, noting the reason for such filing. Any erasures made on a plat prior to its signing shall be initialed and dated by the Planning Commission Chairman or other authorized agent at the time of the signing. The approval of the final plat shall be valid for a period of one (1) year following the date of such approval. The owner or developer shall be required to furnish to the City of Saraland Building Department a copy of said plat upon recording. (e) Streets - Legal Status:  The City of Saraland shall not accept, open, improve, grade, light any street; authorize water mains, sanitary sewer, or connections to be made to any street, unless such street has been accepted or otherwise granted the legal status of a public street or right-of-way correspond with a street shown on the Comprehensive Plan or is a part of a subdivision plat approved by the Planning Commission. To be given the legal status as a public street, said street or right-of-way, shall upon recommendation by the Planning Commission be officially accepted as a street by resolution of the City Council. (f) Streets - Maintenance Bond:  The developer/owner shall submit to the City of Saraland a maintenance bond for a period of two (2) years. The bond shall be in an amount equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the total street, utility, and drainage improvements in the subdivision. Said bond shall be required by the City of Saraland as a condition to acceptance of any new streets within the corporate limits. The City Engineer or other administrative official as designated by the City Council shall determine the adequacy of said bond and security thereon. The maintenance bond period shall begin upon the acceptance of the street and drainage improvements by resolution of the City Council. Thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of said maintenance bond, an inspection shall be conducted to ensure that the improvements are in satisfactory condition prior to acceptance. 94 SECTION F DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL REQUIREMENTS   95 ARTICLE XVIII  DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL STORM WATER DETENTION  18-1 GENERAL POLICY  The main objective of drainage design shall be the safety of the traveling public with the protection of City of Saraland and private property consistent with good engineering practice. 18-2 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS  The responsible Design Engineer shall not submit for approval any plat of a subdivision or site plan which does not make adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff channels or basins. The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system. A copy of the design computations sealed by a registered engineer shall be submitted along with plans. Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across any intersection, nor for a distance of more than six hundred (600) feet in the gutter. When calculations indicate curb capacities are exceeded at a point, catch basins shall be used to intercept flow at that point. Storm sewers and drainage structures shall be designed and installed as required in accordance with good engineering practice. The minimum pipe diameter of storm drains shall be fifteen (15) inches. In no case shall storm water empty into the sanitary sewer system. 18-3 LOCATION  The applicant/developer will be required to carry away by pipe or open concrete paved ditch any spring or surface water that may exist either previously to or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities may be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, or in perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width and shall be constructed in accordance with the Alabama Department of Transportation Standard Specifications. 18-4 ACCESSIBILITY TO PUBLIC STORM SEWERS  Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant will be required to install storm sewer facilities or if no outlets are within a reasonable distance, adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of storm waters, subject to the specifications and calculations submitted by the Design Engineer. If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually, as a result of phased construction, the developer shall make arrangements for future storm water disposal by a storm sewer system at the time the plat receives final approval. Provisions for such connection shall be incorporated by inclusion in the performance bond required for the subdivision plat. Where a storm drainage system is not accessible, the subdivider shall install all drainage structures necessary to convey the water to a location acceptable to the City. All open drainage ditches shall be paved with an acceptable material. 96  18-5 ACCOMMODATION OF UPSTREAM DRAINAGE AREAS  A culvert, pipe, or other drainage facility shall, in each case, be of sufficient size to accommodate potential developed property storm water runoff from its upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the subdivision. The Design Engineer shall review the necessary size of the facility based on the provisions of the construction standards and specifications. 18-6 EFFECT ON DOWNSTREAM DRAINAGE AREAS  The Design Engineer shall also review the effect of each development on existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the development. These drainage studies, together with such other studies as shall be appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed improvements. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the development will overload an existing downstream drainage facility, approval of the development may be withheld until provision has been made for the improvement of said potential condition in such sum as the Design Engineer shall determine. No development shall be approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to the natural drainage watercourse or an existing facility. 18-7 GENERAL PROVISIONS  All developments shall be provided with adequate storm drainage facilities. Any areas subject to periodic flooding caused by poor drainage facilities will not be accepted unless the developer or subdivider makes necessary provisions to eliminate such flooding in conformity with the National Flood Insurance Program. Fill may not be used to raise land in areas subject to flood and/or excessive erosion, unless the fill proposed does not restrict the natural flow of water, advance erosion, and unduly increase flood heights. A complete drainage plan and contour map showing the pipe sizes, their locations and the areas to be drained, shall be submitted along with the profile grades and typical roadway section for approval. All existing drainage structures shall also be shown. All off project drainage, draining onto the subdivision, shall be shown on contour maps and/or construction plans showing the areas in acres the subdivision will have to accommodate. On any single drainage structure requiring twenty (20) square feet or more of end area, a special design drawing will be required for approval. All roadway cross drain pipes shall be reinforced concrete and have a minimum size of eighteen (18) inches. Only pipe that meets specifications equaling Alabama State Highway Department Specifications will be acceptable. No unacceptable pipe shall be used. 97  Where the subdivider has open ditches, a maximum of three to one (3:1) front slopes and flat bottom ditch is required; the width of the ditch shall be determined by the required flows and the existing conditions and as determined by the Design Engineer. V-bottom ditches or other special designs may be permitted in special cases if they are concrete slope paved. The provisions of this Article shall apply to all developers and/or subdividers. 18-8 EASEMENTS  Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way, perpetual unobstructed easements at least twenty (20) feet in width for such drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines and with satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the record plat. Drainage easements shall be carried from the road to the natural watercourse or to other drainage facilities. The applicant may be required to dedicate either in fee, drainage, or by conservation easement land on both sides of existing watercourses to a distance that is adequate to discharge flood waters without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for dedication shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage ways, except where improvements are warranted and may be deemed necessary by the Design Engineer. 18-9 DEDICATION OF EASEMENTS  Where a subdivision or development of land is traversed by watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such water course, and of such width and construction or both as shall be adequate for the purpose. For the smaller streams, the plat shall also provide for channel improvement to enable them to carry all reasonable floods within banks. The floor elevations of houses or buildings shall be high enough to be above the regulatory flood. The flood way easement shall be wide enough to provide for future enlargement of the stream channel as adjacent areas become more highly developed and runoff rates are increased. 18-10 ENGINEERING PLANS  The developer or contractor shall submit detailed drainage plans and drainage calculations to the City for review and approval for all developments affecting City right-of-way. Said plans shall be prepared by a Professional Engineer registered in the State of Alabama and shall contain the following information:  (a) Topography map of proposed developed areas. (b) Existing and proposed contours at sufficient intervals, usually 2 feet if not over 5%. 98  (c) Existing drainage system. (d) Proposed drainage system, including onsite and offsite drainage areas. (e) Structure location, type and size, and slope, cfs, inlet el., outlet el., velocity, headwater el., tail water el. (f) Discharge quantities, pre runoff cfs, and post runoff cfs. (g) Other pertinent information necessary for review of the drainage plans as may be required by the City. (h) Erosion and sediment control plan. Upon completion of the project, correspondence shall be submitted to the City of Saraland from the Design Engineer certifying all drainage facilities have been installed in accordance with approved plans. Inspection of the facilities shall be conducted by the Design Engineer. 18-11 CULVERTS  Culverts under arterial roadways shall normally accommodate a minimum of twenty-five (25) year frequency design storm. Conditions may dictate that one hundred (100) year design storms must be accommodated. Design storm criteria will be used by the Design Engineer based on the site specific conditions that warrant life and property protection. All types of culverts within the rights-of-way of public roads must be approved and shall conform to Alabama Department of Transportation standards. 18-12 BRIDGES  Bridges shall accommodate a minimum of a fifty (50) year frequency design storm. Conditions may dictate that of a one hundred (100) year frequency design storm. 18-13 OPEN CHANNELS AND DITCHES  Open channels and ditches shall be designed so as not to create a traffic hazard or create hazardous erosion. The minimum flow line slope for paved ditches shall be 0.3% and shall be a maximum of one (1%) percent for unpaved ditches. The recommended maximum flow velocities shall be in accordance with the ranges recommended in the latest edition of the Alabama Department of Transportation Hydraulics Manual. Clean out accesses shall be provided at least every three hundred (300) feet for continuous pipes of twenty-four (24) inches in diameter or less and at least every four hundred (400)   99 feet for larger continuous pipes if required. Clean out accesses are also required at each angle point and at each change in grade. 18-14 STORM RUNOFF ESTIMATES  Basic design data and calculations shall be prepared, sealed and submitted by a professional engineer registered in the State of Alabama for the developer, owner, or contractor. The method of determining storm runoff shall be based on acceptable engineering practice and standards. 18-15 SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION - CONCRETE BOX CULVERTS  Concrete box culverts shall be designed and constructed according to the latest edition of the Standards and Specifications for Road and Bridge construction, Alabama Department of Transportation. 18-16 HEAD WALLS AND RIPRAP  Culvert head walls shall be required on pipe culverts and shall be reinforced concrete. Special types of head walls may be required by the City when deemed necessary for erosion control. Riprap may be required at the upstream and downstream end of culverts and shall be placed at these locations based on the velocities at that location. 18-17 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL  The following provisions impose requirements on persons engaged in land disturbing activities which require planning and implementation of effective sedimentation controls for subdivision development and all other land disturbing projects. 18-18 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS -EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN REQUIREMENT  An erosion and sediment control plan shall be required in all areas within the corporate limits or extraterritorial planning jurisdiction of the City of Saraland where appropriate. Said plan shall be approved by the Building Department and/or Planning Commission and a Site Disturbance Permit shall be obtained prior to the commencement of any land-disturbing activity. 18-19 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW  Whenever there is an area to be disturbed, a copy of the plan shall be filed with the Building Department a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to beginning any land-disturbing activity. A copy of the plans shall also be on file at the job site. If the City determines, either upon review of such plan or on inspection of the job site, that a significant risk of off-site sedimentation or erosion exists, a revised plan shall be prepared. 100 Pending the preparation of the revised plan, the work shall be suspended or continued under conditions outlined by the Building Department. 18-20 PLAN CONTENT  Erosion and sediment control plans shall contain architectural and engineering drawings, maps, assumptions, calculations, and narrative statements as needed to describe accurately the proposed development of the site and the measures planned to meet the Basic Control Objectives. Plan content may vary to meet the needs of the specific site conditions. 18-21 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY  Persons engaged in land-disturbing activities shall take all reasonable measures to protect all public and private property, including roadways, from damage by such activities. 18-22 BASIC CONTROL OBJECTIVES  The basic control objectives which should be considered the minimum in developing and implementing an erosion and sediment control plan are to:  (a) Identify Critical Areas:  On-site areas which are subject to severe erosion, and off-site areas which are especially vulnerable to damage from erosion and/or sedimentation, are to be identified and receive special attention. (b) Limit Exposed Areas:  All land-disturbing activities should be planned and conducted to minimize the size of the area to be exposed at any one time. (c) Limit Time of Exposure:  All land-disturbing activities should be planned and conducted to limit exposure to the shortest time. (d) Surface Water Control:  Surface water runoff originating upgrade of exposed areas should be controlled to reduce erosion and sediment loss during the period of exposure. (e) Sedimentation Control:  All land-disturbing activities should be planned and conducted so as to minimize off- site sediment damage. (f) Manage Storm Water Runoff:  When the increase in the peak rates and velocity of storm water runoff resulting from a land-disturbing activity is sufficient to cause damaging accelerated erosion of the   101 receiving ditch or channel stream, plans are to include measures to control both the velocity and rate of an increase so as to minimize accelerated erosion and increased sediment deposition in the ditch or stream channel. 18-23 MANDATORY STANDARDS  No land-disturbing activity subject to these provisions and guidelines shall be undertaken except in accordance with the following requirements:  (a) No activity shall be permitted in proximity to a lake, natural watercourse, or adjacent property where applicable unless a buffer zone is provided along the boundary of sufficient width to confine visible siltation and/or prevent erosion, provided that the land-disturbing activity is not in connection with the construction of facilities to be located on, over, or under a lake, natural watercourse, or the adjacent property. (b) The angle for graded slopes and fills shall be no greater than the angle which can be retained by vegetative cover or other adequate erosion control devices or structures. (c) In any event, slopes left exposed shall within thirty (30) working days of completion of final grading be planted or otherwise provided with ground cover, devices, or structures sufficient to restrain erosion. (d) Whenever land-disturbing activity is undertaken on a tract comprising more than one (1) acre, if more than one (1) contiguous acre is uncovered, a ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion must be planted or otherwise provided within thirty (30) working days on the portion of the tract upon which further active construction is not being undertaken, provided this activity shall not apply to cleared land forming the basin of a reservoir later to be inundated. 18-24 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS  Erosion and sediment control measures, structures, and devices shall be planned, designed, and constructed as to provide control from the calculated peak rates of runoff from a ten- year frequency storm. Runoff rates may be calculated using the procedures in the USDA, Soil Conservation Services “National Engineering Field Manual for Conservation Practices,” or other acceptable calculation procedures. Runoff computations shall be based on rainfall data published by the National Weather Service for the area. 18-25 OTHER REQUIREMENTS  (a) Permanent Downstream Protection of Stream Banks and Channels:  Provision shall be made for the permanent protection of off-site stream banks and channels from the erosive effects of increased velocity and volume of storm water runoff resulting from certain land-disturbing activities. A combination of storage and controlled release of storm water runoff shall be required for all highway construction, business, commercial, industrial, educational, institutional developments of one (1) acre or more, and all residential developments. 102  Detention, storage, and controlled release will not be required in those instances where the person planning to conduct the activity can demonstrate that the storm water release will not cause an increase in accelerated erosion or sedimentation of the receiving ditch, stream channel, overload downstream drainage ways, or other drainage facility, taking into consideration any anticipated development of the watershed in question. (b) Borrow and Waste Areas:  When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is also the person conducting the borrow or waste disposal activity, areas from which borrow is obtained shall be considered as part of the land-disturbing activity where the borrow material is being used or from which the waste material originated. When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is not the person obtaining the borrow and/or disposing of the waste, these areas shall be considered a separate land-disturbing activity. (c) Access and Haul Roads:  Temporary access and haul roads, other than public roads, constructed or used in connection with any land-disturbing activity shall be considered a part of such activity. (d) Operations in Lakes or Natural Watercourses:  Land-disturbing activity in connection with construction, in, on, over, under a lake, or natural watercourse shall be planned and conducted in such a manner as to minimize the extent and duration of disturbance of the stream channel. The relocation of a stream, where relocation is an essential part of the proposed activity, shall be planned and executed so as to minimize changes in the stream flow characteristics, except when justification for significant alteration to flow characteristic is provided. (e) Responsibility for Maintenance:  The person engaged in or conducting the land-disturbing activity shall be responsible for maintaining all temporary or permanent erosion and sediment control measures and facilities during the development of a site. The responsibility for maintaining all permanent erosion and sediment control measures and facilities, after site development is completed, shall lie with the landowner, except for public drainage facilities. 18-26 GUIDELINES FOR EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PRACTICES   Persons engaged in planning, designing, installing and maintaining erosion and sediment control measures may use generally accepted references on the subject following standard   103 engineering and/or agricultural practices. All plans will be subject to review by the Building Inspector. 18-27 ADDITIONAL MEASURES  Whenever the Building Inspector determines that significant erosion or sedimentation is occurring as a result of a land-disturbing activity, despite application and maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the land-disturbing activity, or the person responsible for maintenance will be required to take additional protective action. 18-28 STORM WATER DETENTION - GENERAL  Developments which produce an increase in the amount of storm water runoff will be required to construct storm water detention ponds or other approved types of detention devices. The developer shall submit, detailed engineering plans to the City including historical runoff, developed runoff, detention pond details, method of discharge, and other information as required for review. The developer shall also include the method of maintenance for the detention pond after the development is complete. 18-29 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR STORM WATER DETENTION AND DESIGN CRITERIA  Among the consequences of growth and development, two are of great relevance to storm water management. Increased runoff created by the change of the nature and properties of the surface of the ground and velocity of discharge of this increased runoff. The natural condition of the land before development is in relative balance with the natural capacity of the receiving streams. The undeveloped conditions provide greater permeability and longer time of concentration. By modification of the surface from the irregular, pervious, areas are changed to a more impervious and more effectively drained and in most cases denuded of vegetation. It is the intent of this section to alert the developers to possible harmful effects from any land development project on properties downstream and provide a guideline for evaluation and control of the elements related to storm water which affects the welfare and safety of citizens of the City of Saraland. In order to provide some control of these possible harmful elements of development and to reduce economic losses due to erosion and flooding, the criteria of differential runoff and storm water detention are hereby established. Post-development release rates shall not exceed pre-development rates. When feasible, the differential runoff should be less. The terms of these design criteria shall become effective for all projects in the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction of the City of Saraland. 18-30 JURISDICTION  All projects which fall under the inspection, permitting, or extraterritorial planning   104 jurisdiction of the City, on items related to storm water management and site development within the corporate limits of the City, as well as, the incorporated areas and unincorporated areas of Mobile County. 18-31 LIABILITY  The design criteria establish minimum elements of design which must be implemented with good engineering and good workmanship. Use of the information contained herein for placement of any structure or use of land, shall not constitute a representation, guarantee, or warranty of any kind by the City, its offices or employees, of the practicability, adequacy or safety and shall not create liability upon or cause action against any such public body, office, or employee for any damage that may result pursuant thereto. 18-32 ENGINEER’S SEAL  All plans and specifications submitted for review and/or approval shall be prepared by, or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer, licensed in the State of Alabama, and shall meet the minimum standards and requirements of the City and other applicable authorities. Each of the plan, profile and special drawing sheets for a project shall bear a legible stamp of the Professional Engineer in charge. If the name or license number is not clear, the signature and number shall be added. It is imperative that the professional design engineer be qualified in the area of drainage per the State of Alabama registration laws. 18-33 PRE-DESIGN CONFERENCE  The developer and the consulting engineer are encouraged to contact the City for a pre- design conference at the conceptual stage of the project. Such conference would be mutually beneficial to outline the complexity and scope of design, applicability of criteria and elimination of possible items of conflict during the review process. Subsequent conferences, during the preparation of plans may be arranged by the consulting engineer or the developer to obtain preliminary, informal decisions on items in need of clarification. 18-34 LETTER TRANSMITTAL   In order to facilitate review of plans, all projects shall be submitted with a letter of transmittal which shall include the name of the project, name and address of the owner and/or developer, telephone number of the engineer, and clarification as to the purpose of submittal. 18-35 DIFFERENTIAL RUNOFF  The difference in rate and volume of storm water runoff from a parcel or project in its undeveloped natural condition and its developed condition is known as the differential runoff. 105 18-36 DEVELOPMENTS AFFECTED  Detention requirements are directly related to permitted land use where it exists. The permitted densities and minimum lot areas are important factors in the anticipated runoff. Projects of small acreage may be required to provide detention if conditions in the receiving system are inadequate or harmful effects can be anticipated if detention is not implemented. 18-37 PHASING AND PLATTING  The effective acreage for a project is not limited to a fractional part of the total concept, rather if a project is developed in phases of small plats, the total acreage of the conceptual project shall be considered. 18-38 METHOD OF EVALUATION  Differential runoff evaluation consists of the determination of the rate of runoff before and after development, determination of required volume of detention and verification of adequacy of discharge and control structures. Design should be based on a minimum of a twenty-five (25) year storm or a twenty-four (24) hour event. This shall be based on sound engineering criteria and computations shall be submitted to the City for review. 18-39 METHOD OF DETENTION:  The following conditions and limitations should be observed in selection and use of method of detention:  (a) General Location:  (1) Detention facilities shall be located within the parcel limits of the project under consideration. (2) No detention or ponding will be permitted within public road rights-of-way. (3) Location of detention facilities immediately upstream or downstream of the project will be considered by special request if proper documentation is submitted with reference to practicality, feasibility and proof of ownership or right-of-use of the area proposed. 18-40 COMMON GROUND PROJECTS  It is preferred that detention facilities be always located in common ground. Projects developed under these procedures shall establish, in the recorded plat, maintenance and access easements for the detention facilities and include provisions for maintenance in the Trust Indentures. The entire reservoir area of the open channel shall be seeded, fertilized, mulched, sodded,   106 paved, or lined prior to final plat approval by the City. The hydraulic elevations resulting from channel detention shall not adversely affect adjoining properties. 18-41 PERMANENT LAKES  Permanent lakes with fluctuating volume controls may be used as detention areas provided that the limits of maximum ponding elevations are no closer than thirty (30) feet horizontally from any building and less than two (2) feet below the lowest sill elevation of any building. Maximum side slopes for the fluctuating area of permanent lakes shall be one (1) foot vertical to three (3) feet horizontal (3:1) unless proper provisions are included for safety, stability and ease of maintenance. Maximum fluctuation from permanent pool elevation to maximum ponding elevation shall be three (3) feet, with a greater depth subject to approval. Special consideration is suggested to safety and accessibility for small children in design of permanent lakes in residential areas and fencing may be required. Viability of the permanent impoundment pool no greater than one-tenth the size of the tributary drainage area. It is suggested that the maximum depth of twenty-five percent (25%) of the permanent pool area be no greater than six (6) feet. Allowances for silting under denuded soil conditions, during construction, for a period not less than one (1) year is also recommended. The entire fluctuating area of the permanent reservoir shall be seeded, fertilized and mulched, sodded or paved prior to release of surety if required by the City. Any area susceptible to or designed as overflow by higher design intensity rainfall, as indicated previously, shall be sodded or paved. 18-42 PARKING LOTS  Detention is permitted in parking lots to maximum depth of eight (8) inches. In no case should the maximum limits of ponding be designed closer than ten (10) feet from a building unless water proof of the building and pedestrian accessibility is properly documented. The minimum freeboard from the maximum ponding elevation to the lowest sill elevation shall be one (1) foot. 18-43 OTHER METHODS  Other methods of detention such as seepage pits, french drains, etc. are discouraged. If other methods are proposed, proper documentation of soils data, percolation, geological features, will be needed for review and consideration. 18-44 VERIFICATION OF ADEQUACY  Analysis of all elements of design is always performed by the registered professional   107 engineer. The following outline is provided to ascertain that certain critical elements of design are in workable compliance with the aims of design:  (a) Volume of retention for the total project (b) Tributary (Q) peak runoff to basin (c) Balanced maximum outflow rate from the low-flow structure (d) Ratios of inflow to outflow (e) Sizing of the overflow facilities (f) Stability of dikes (g) Safety features (h) Maintenance features  For projects up to two hundred (200) acres, routing calculations shall be submitted in legible tabulated form with documented verification of adequacy according to scope and complexity of design. Proof of adequacy of volume of retention and sizing computations for low-flow structures shall also be submitted. Features of stability and safety may also need to be documented if the scope of the project requires special attention in this area of design. 18-45 CONTROL STRUCTURES  Detention facilities shall be provided with obvious and effective control structures. Plan view and sections of the structure with adequate detail shall be included in plans. Sizing the low-flow pipe shall be by inlet control or hydraulic gradient requirements. Low-flow pipes shall not be smaller than eight (8) inches in diameter to minimize maintenance and operating problems, except in parking lot and roof retention where minimum size of opening shall be designed specifically for each condition. The overflow opening or spillway shall be designed to accept the total peak runoff of the improved tributary area. Proper engineering judgment shall be exercised in analysis of secondary routing of discharge of greater intensity than the basic design storm in order to avoid economic losses or damage downstream. Review with twenty-five (25) and fifty (50) year frequency or greater is recommended. 18-46 DISCHARGE SYSTEMS   Sizing of the system below the control structure shall be for the total improved peak runoff tributary to the structure with no allowance for detention. When existing downstream pipe sizing, outside the developers control jurisdiction, is inadequate, an evaluation for under sizing of pipes may be undertaken by the City upon receipt of written request from the engineer specifying the run or runs desired to be undersized. Requests for under sizing shall be accompanied by plans and profiles of the entire undersized system downstream if less than five hundred (500) feet in length or a minimum of five   108 hundred (500) feet. When hydraulic gradients of the proposed undersize system affect the performance or capacity of structures maintained by the City, no under sizing will be allowed. 18-47 EASEMENTS  Two (2) types of easements shall be provided in plans for detention facilities. 18-48 MAINTENANCE EASEMENT  All detention reservoirs with the exception of parking lot and roof detention shall be enclosed by a maintenance easement. The limits of the easement shall extend ten (10) feet beyond the top elevation of the reservoir. When a detention reservoir is adjacent to a public right-of-way, the limits of the easement shall extend twenty-five (25) feet beyond the elevation of the reservoir on the public right- of-way side. 18-49 DRAINAGE EASEMENTS  A minimum fifteen (15) feet wide drainage easement shall be provided within the reservoir area connecting the tributary pipes and the discharge system along the best possible routing of a piping system for possible future elimination of detention. 18-50 MAINTENANCE OF DETENTION FACILITIES  Detention facilities are to be built in conjunction with the storm sewer installation and/or grading. Since these facilities are intended to control increased runoff, they must be partially or fully operational soon after the clearing of the vegetation. Silt and debris connected with early construction shall be removed periodically from the detention area and control structure in order to maintain full storage capacity. The responsibility for maintenance of the detention facilities in new development subdivision projects shall remain with the developer until such time the maintenance responsibility is vested in the owner or Trustees of the subdivision. These maintenance requirements do not imply that any drainage structures or systems are or will become the maintenance responsibility of the City. A letter from the owner/developer indicating responsibility for maintenance of all drainage structures or systems shall be submitted and shall become part of the official record which shall run with the land. When storm water detention storage is included in a site plan or subdivision plans, the owner must provide the City of Saraland with a plan for the maintenance of the detention facility. Said plan shall set forth the maintenance requirements of the facility and the party responsible for performing the maintenance. No responsibility for repairs or maintenance is assumed by the City of Saraland. 109 SECTION G LANDSCAPE PROVISIONS   110 ARTICLE XIX  LANDSCAPE AND TREE PROTECTION  19-1 PURPOSE  The intent of this Article is to establish minimum standards for the provision, installation, and maintenance of landscape plantings and tree preservation in order to achieve a healthy, beautiful, and safe community by the following means:  • Aesthetics:  Improve the appearance of all areas through the incorporation of open space into development in ways that harmonize, enhance, and build the natural environment. • Environmental Quality:  Improve environmental quality by recognizing the numerous beneficial effects of landscaping and tree preservation upon the environment. • Land Values:  Maintain and increase the value of land by requiring landscaping and tree preservation to be incorporated into development thus becoming itself a valuable capital asset. • Human Values:  Provide direct and important physical and psychological benefits to human being through the use of landscaping and tree preservation to reduce noise and glare, to break up the monotony, and soften the harsher aspects of urban development. • Preservation of Vegetation:  Preserve existing natural vegetation and the incorporation of native plants, plant communities and ecosystems into landscape design, where possible. • Improved Design:  Promote innovative and cost conscious approaches to the design, installation, and maintenance of landscaping, encouraging existing tree preservation, and water and energy conservation. • Improved Administration and Enforcement:  Establish procedures and standards for the administration and enforcement of this Article. 111 19-2 DEFINITIONS  • Caliper Diameter of a tree trunk. Caliper determines the minimum size of trees planted to fulfill this ordinance. For trees less than four (4) inches in diameter to be measured six (6) inches above the ground. For trees from four (4) to twelve (12) inches in diameter to be measured twelve (12) inches above the ground. • D.B.H. Diameter at Breast Height. Used to measure all existing trees four and a half (4 ½) feet above the grade with a diameter greater than twelve (12) inches. • Landscape Plan A component of a development plan on which is shown: proposed landscape species, such as number, spacing, size at time of planting, and planting details; proposals for protection of existing vegetation during and after construction; proposed treatment of hard and soft surfaces; proposed decorative features; grade changes; buffers and screening devices; and any other information that can reasonably be required in order for an informed decision to be made by the approving authority. • Overstory Tree Trees which, at maturity, comprise the canopy of a natural forest. Generally greater than fifty (50) feet at mature height. Overstory trees shall not be allowed to be located under or within forty (40) feet of an overhead power line. (See Understory Tree). • Public/City Tree Any tree located on City or public property including City  right-of-way. • Significant Tree Any tree that has aged and grown to an impressive stature, for its species, to be considered an integral part of the City's natural heritage. • Site Plan The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown the existing and proposed conditions of the lot including topography, vegetation, drainage, flood plains, wetlands, and waterways; landscaping and open spaces; irrigation; walkways; means of ingress and egress; circulation; utility services; structures and buildings; signs and lighting; berms, buffers and screening devices; surrounding development; and any other information that reasonably may be required in order that an informed decision can be made by the approving authority. • Understory Tree Trees which, at maturity, comprise the sub-canopy of a natural forest. These are generally under fifty (50) feet at a mature   112 height. A suggested list of understory trees is as follows:  Japanese Maple, Redbud, Fringe Tree, Crape Myrtle, Oriental Magnolia, Vitex, Sweet Bay Magnolia, American Holly, Loquat, Cherry Laurel, Japanese Evergreen Oak, East Palatka Holly, or Savannah Holly. 19-3 APPLICABILITY AND USE  (a) Applicability:  The provisions of this Article shall be required for all residential projects involving the construction of two (2) or more dwelling units including apartments, town homes, condominiums, planned unit developments, subdivisions, business, commercial, and industrial structures, all existing structures which increases the gross floor area by thirty (30) percent or more, and other uses as required by the Planning Commission. A golf course which was in existence prior to the enactment of this Ordinance is hereby exempt from the provisions of this Article. (b) Use or Ownership Provision:   Where a change in: (a) use of property, (b)occupancy, or (c) ownership regardless of name change to any business, commercial, or industrial development, it shall be the responsibility of the owner to comply with the provisions of this Article within one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date in which the change occurs. 19-4 LANDSCAPE STANDARDS  (a) Site Plan Review:  A site plan shall not be approved by the Planning Commission without an acceptable landscape and irrigation plan, as the same is defined pursuant to the provisions of this Article. (b) Subdivision Review: (Ord. 990, 11-13-14)  A subdivision shall not be approved by the Planning Commission without an acceptable landscape and irrigation plan, as the same is defined pursuant to the provisions of this Article. All subdivisions shall require a landscape plan for the common areas of the subdivision: the entrance, common use areas, detention pond, and other areas which are deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission. A tree survey shall not be required for a development located within an M-2 General Industrial District. 113 (c) Revisions to Landscape Plan:  If proposed construction shall cause changes in the landscape or irrigation plan, a revised plan shall be submitted to the Building Inspector for re-evaluation. (d) Issuance of Site Disturbance Permit:  A landscape and irrigation plan shall be submitted with the recommendation of the Building Inspector and approved by the Planning Commission prior to the issuance of a Site Disturbance Permit. (e) Compliance with Landscape Provisions:  All subject properties, as well as, those owned by the City of Saraland shall comply with the provisions of this Article. (f) Certification and Plan Requirements:  Landscape plans shall be drawn and stamped by a licensed landscape architect. The landscape plan shall be of professional quality and include the following:  (1) Date, scale, north arrow, title, and names and contact information for property owner(s), developer, and the landscape architect. (2) Location of existing boundary line dimensions of the building site, existing water sources, significant drainage features, existing and proposed streets or alleys, existing or proposed utility easements on or adjacent to the building site, rights-of-way, setbacks, locations of proposed parking spaces, and location of existing and/or proposed sidewalks. (3) The locations, species, and D.B.H., diameter at breast height, of existing significant trees indicating those to be retained and those to be removed along with written justification for the removal of any significant trees. (4) The location(s) and dimension(s) of the proposed landscaped areas within the parking area(s) including a description of new trees and plant materials to be placed within landscaped area(s). Both common and botanical names shall be included. (5) An indication, using written or graphic information, of how the applicant plans to provide protection from damage, during construction, any existing trees and other vegetation which are proposed to be retained. (6) An indication, using written or graphic information, of how the applicant intends to protect tree roots by controlling erosion or sediment loss during construction. (7) Locations, type, and design of the proposed irrigation system. (8) Location and species of buffer zone vegetation. 114  (9) A tree survey shall be made of the subject property and show all understory tree with an eight (8) inch or greater caliper or an overstory with a twelve (12) inch or greater caliper. This information shall be plotted on a 24" x 36" vellum drawing at the same scale as the plan. The drawing is to be used as an overlay to determine which trees will be retained and/or removed. The landscape plan shall clearly show what existing trees, shrubbery, and other vegetation will be retained, as well as, what trees, shrubbery, and other vegetation shall be added to complete the final landscaping of the property. 19-5 PROTECTION OF SIGNIFICANT TREES  An overstory tree species is considered protected as a significant heritage tree if it has a twelve (12) inch or greater caliper. Likewise, an understory tree species is considered protected if it has an eight (8) inch or greater caliper. Significant trees are hereby protected under this Article and cannot be cut or intentionally harmed without the expressed written permission of the City of Saraland Building Inspector. 19-6 TREE PROTECTION ZONE --- RESERVED  19-7 TREE REMOVAL AND PERMIT PROCEDURES  (a) Tree Removal:  Tree removal will be at the property owner’s expense except for:  1) Trees in the City right-of-way which are diseased, injured, in danger of falling close to existing structures, create unsafe vision clearance, the removal of which shall be funded by the City; or 2) trees beneath utility lines which threaten to damage utility lines, of which the removal is the responsibility of the utility company. (b) Tree Removal Permit:  Any person wishing to remove or relocate a significant tree, a tree located within the tree protection zone, any under story tree with an eight (8) inch or greater caliper, or an over story with a twelve (12) inch or greater caliper shall submit a written application on the prescribed documents of the City of Saraland Building Inspector accompanied by a site plan. The following criteria must be established in order for the permit to be issued:   (1) The tree shall be located in an area where a structure or improvement is to be placed in accordance with the proposed plan. (2) The tree shall be diseased, injured, in danger of falling too close to an existing or proposed structure, interferes with existing utility service, creates an unsafe vision clearance, or conflicts with other Ordinances, Articles, or Regulations. 115  (3) The tree shall be prior to or after construction in violation of federal, state, local laws, or regulations including but not limited to laws and regulations pertaining to government programs for the financing of the construction. (4) No under story trees greater than eight (8) inches in diameter or greater caliper or an over story with a twelve (12) inch or greater caliper shall be removed unless it can be shown that the tree is a safety hazard to pedestrians, property or vehicular traffic, is diseased or weakened by age, storm, fire or other injury, or it is absolutely necessary to construct the proposed improvements without incurring significant additional construction costs, or it is necessary for the installation of solar energy equipment. (5) A permit may be denied if the tree is considered to have aged or grown to an impressive stature for its species or it is considered an integral part of the natural heritage the City of Saraland Building Inspector determines there is a reasonable alternative other than the removal of the tree. 19-8 REPLACEMENT TREES  In such case as outlined in Section 19-7 of this Article, the developer shall be required to plant two (2) replacement trees for each tree removed. The trees shall be shade or flowering trees and shall be at least two and one half (2 ½) inches or greater in caliper and ten (10) feet in height at planting. The landscape plan shall show the placement and species of the proper number of required new trees. The plan shall include complete, concise and clear renderings, and any other documentation as required by the Building Inspector and/or the Planning Commission. (a) Planting Requirements:  Trees planted in accordance with this Article shall meet the following criteria:  (1) A minimum of four (4) different species shall be planted on each site. Three (3) species shall be over story (large) trees and one (1) species shall be an under story (medium) tree in order to promote species richness. (2) Large (over story) trees must have at least two and one half (2 ½) inches or greater in caliper and ten (10) feet in height at planting. (3) Medium (under story) trees must have at least two (2) inches in caliper and eight (8) feet in height at planting. (4) Multi-stemmed under story trees must be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height and must have at least three (3) stems; each with a minimum caliper of three-fourths (3/4) inches. (5) Shrubs pruned into tree form variations shall not be credited toward tree planting requirements. These include, but are not limited to the following: Ligustrum, Indian Hawthorn, Tree Yaupon, and Camellia. 116  (6) On site relocated trees may be credited toward these requirements. (7) It is recommended that trees be obtained from a licensed source. 19-9 GREEN BELT ZONE  All developments along U.S. Highway 43 shall maintain a minimum of ten (10) feet of the required fifty (50) foot setback as a landscaped green belt along the entire front width of the property, except where curb cuts provide ingress and egress. If any of the fifty (50) foot front setback is used for parking, said green belt shall be in addition to the landscape requirements for parking areas as more specifically defined in Section 19-11 of this Article. Said green belt shall be planted with trees, shrubs, grass, or other ground cover so as to create an attractive appearance representative of the developer’s approved landscape plan. The trees shall be shade or flowering trees and shall be at least two and one half (2 ½) inches or greater in caliper and ten (10) feet in height at planting. There shall be a minimum of one (1) tree planted for every twenty-five (25) feet or fraction thereof of lot frontage, fifty (50%) percent of which shall be shade trees having a maximum crown of seventy (70) feet, except under or within forty (40) feet of an overhead power line. (See Definitions, Section 19-2, under story Tree). 19-10 BUFFER ZONE REQUIREMENTS  1. Where a business district abuts any part of a residential district, a buffer zone ten (10) feet  wide shall be required; where an industrial district abuts any part of a residential or business  zone, a buffer zone of twenty (20) feet shall be required; where an R-4 or R-5 zone area  abuts an R-1 or R-2 area or lot, a buffer zone ten (10) feet wide shall be required for the area  abutting the R-1 or R-2 area. The buffer shall run the entire length of the abutting lot line(s). Under no circumstances shall this buffer impair vehicular flow and shall be part of the yard requirements. Said protection buffer shall be maintained in such a manner to accomplish its purpose continuously. Zoning districts shall comply with the following minimum standards and said buffer zone shall be constructed of at least one of the following three (3) designs or a combination thereof as determined by the Building Inspector and approved by the Planning Commission:  (a) Wall or Fence:  If a wall or fence of solid appearance is provided as a protection buffer, it shall be at least six (6) feet in height and of a construction and a design approved by the Planning Commission. (b) Screen Planting Strip:  A staggered double row of Evergreen plantings at least ten (10) feet in width which will grow to at least ten (10) feet in height and spaced in a manner in which after three years it will provide an impervious visual barrier. 117  (c) Natural Forest:  Natural, undisturbed forest which provides a nearly impervious visual barrier due to the dense nature of the plants and/or trees. If this option is chosen, the width of the buffer zone shall be twenty-five (25) feet and shall be shown on the landscape plan. The Building Inspector shall determine whether the barrier is satisfactory via site inspection prior to approval. 2. It shall be the responsibility of the land owner to maintain the buffer zone as approved. The Building Official shall have the authority to require an owner to take appropriate action to repair and reinstate any approved buffer area. It will be the Building Official’’s discretion to determine how to best repair or rehabilitate any buffer area. 19-11 OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES  The design and appearance of parking areas are intended to be compatible with the character of the community. Toward this objective, the following landscaping standards shall be observed in the construction of off-street parking areas which accommodate six (6) or more parking spaces:  (a) Landscaped areas and perimeter areas shall be so graded as to receive a reasonable portion of the rainfall from the surrounding pavement. Protective curbing around landscaped areas will leave openings for the flow of water onto unpaved areas. (b) At least fifteen percent (15%) of the total interior area intended for off-street parking shall be suitably landscaped. (c) Interior portions of the parking area at intervals of twelve (12) parking spaces shall be broken by provision of landscaped islands. Such landscape islands shall include the placement of shade or flowering trees at least two and one half (2 ½) inches or greater in caliper and ten (10) feet in height at planting. (d) Each separate landscaped area must be a minimum of ninety (90) square feet if it is to be counted toward the minimum landscaped area requirements. (e) Landscaped areas shall be protected from vehicular encroachment by the use of curbing or wheel stops. (f) The owner, tenant and/or agent, if any, shall be jointly and severally responsible for watering and maintaining all landscaping in a healthy, neat and orderly condition, replacing it when necessary, and keeping it free of refuse and debris. (g) A minimum of five (5) feet side and rear landscaping may be required in the landscape plan depending on the topography and arrangement of parking facilities. If required, such areas shall be planted with a combination of trees, shrubs, and grass or other ground cover adequate to break the expanse of contiguous parking areas and to present an attractive appearance as determined by the Building inspector. 118 (h) Adjacent property owners may jointly agree on the establishment of a common landscaped area between their properties that meets the requirements of this Article; provided that such agreement and the planting and maintenance of the common area shall be binding upon both parties, his successors in interest, heirs, and assigns. (i) Innovative landscape designs using “natural cluster of trees” rather than the required one (1) tree at intervals of twelve (12) parking spaces may be approved by the Planning Commission if it is determined that the design is compatible with the character of the community and is shown not to be a safety hazard. 19-12 SPECIAL DESIGNS  More stringent design and landscape standards may be required in any district if it is determined the design would be more compatible with the development and more beneficial to the aesthetics of the City. 19-13 SUPERVISION  The landscape architect shall be responsible for the supervision of all plantings. Upon completion, the landscape architect shall certify in writing to the City that the submitted, approved landscape plan has been implemented and is in compliance with the provisions of this Article. 19-14 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY  A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until the submitted, approved landscape plan has been implemented or a bond has been posted. Said bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred and fifty percent (150%) of the total of the landscape cost which shall be certified by a professional landscape architect. 19-15 MAINTENANCE  Maintenance of new plantings is the responsibility of the property owner. Any vegetation or trees planted or retained to fulfill this which dies, becomes damaged, or diseased must be replaced by the property owner by the beginning of the optimum planting season of the following year. The property owner must notify the City of Saraland Horticulturist in writing when the replacement tree(s) and vegetation has been planted. 19-16 PENALTIES  The Code Enforcement Officer of the City of Saraland shall serve the owner of said property, each person, firm or corporation engaged in the activities regulated hereunder in which the activities are being conducted in violation of any provision of this Article. The person(s) shall be fined upon conviction, not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and costs of the court for each offense. 119 SECTION H RESERVED    120   SECTION I    ZONING PROVISIONS    121 ARTICLE XXI  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT  21-1 AUTHORITY  The Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby established and the following rules are set forth to govern its operation:  (a) Membership:  The Board shall consist of five (5) members and two (2) alternates appointed by the City Council for overlapping terms of three (3) years. (b) Initial Appointment:  The initial appointment shall be as follows: two (2) members for one (1) year; two (2) members for two (2) years; and, one (1) member for three (3) years. (c) Vacancies:  Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment. Members shall be removed for cause by the City Council upon written charges and after public hearing thereon. (d) Public Offices Held:  No members shall hold any other public office or position; with the exception that one (1) of the Board members may also be a member of the Planning Commission. (e) Rules of Procedure:  The Board shall observe the following procedures:  (1) Shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance for the conduct of its affairs. (2) Shall elect one of its members, other than a member of the Planning Commission, as Chairman, who shall serve for one (1) year or until he is re- elected or his successor is elected. Said Board will appoint a Recording Secretary. (3)  Said meetings of said Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at  such other times as said Board may determine. The Chairman, or in his absence, the acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. (4) All meetings shall be open to the public. 122 (5) Said Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, show the vote of each member upon questions, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the Office of the City Clerk and shall become public record. (f) Duties and Powers:  The Board shall have the following duties and powers:  (1) Administrative Appeal:  To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, Building Official or other administrative official, involved in the enforcement of this Ordinance. (2) Special Exceptions:  To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms upon which said Board is required to pass under this Ordinance. (3) Variances:  To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this Ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice served. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the Board that:  (a) There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography. (b) The application of this Ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship. (c)  Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property    involved. (d) Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of this Ordinance; provided,  however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this Ordinance. (e)  Relief, if granted, would not work an unreasonable hardship, hazard    or inconvenience to adjacent property owners. 123 (g) Use Variance Not Permitted:  The Board shall not be authorized to approve a use not permitted in a zoning district for which the provision is not otherwise provided herein. 21-2 PROCEDURE  Persons requesting a hearing before the Board of Zoning Adjustment for an administrative review, special exception, or a variance shall observe the following procedures:  (a) An application on the prescribed form shall be filed with the Planning Department by said owner of the subject property by the first Tuesday of the month for presentation at the next regular meeting, held on the first Tuesday of the subsequent month. The application shall include all the specified pertinent data including an explanation of the grounds on which the appeal is being made. (Ord. 804, 9-23-10)  (b) An application shall be accompanied by an acceptable site plan. (c) The Board shall hear the appeal within thirty (30) days after its receipt. Public notice of the hearing shall be published in full for one (1) insertion and an additional insertion of a synopsis of the proposed hearing request one (1)week after the first insertion in a newspaper of general circulation published in the municipality, the first insertion shall be at least fifteen (15) days prior to the said public hearing; or, if no newspaper is published in the municipality, then said notice shall be posted in four (4) conspicuous places within the municipality at least fifteen (15) days prior to the said public hearing. Due notice shall be given to the parties in interest of the date, time, and place of said hearing. (d) The Board shall render a decision on any appeal or other matters before it within forty-five (45) days from the date of the public hearing. (e) An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause an imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the said Board or a court of record on application, on notice to the official from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. (f) In exercising the powers granted the Board of Zoning Adjustment, said Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decisions, or determination of the Building Inspector. 21-3 LIMITATION, WITHDRAWAL, CITIZEN APPEALS  (a) A property owner, or his appointed agent, shall not initiate action for a hearing before the Board relating to the same parcel of land more often than once every twelve (12) months on the same variance. 124 (b) Any petition for a hearing before the Board may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by the Board at the discretion of the person initiating such a request upon written notice to the Recording Secretary of the Board. (c) Any person or persons severally or jointly aggrieved by any decision of the Board may make, within fifteen (15) days thereafter, appeal to the circuit court or the like jurisdiction, by filing with such Board a written notice of appeal specifying the judgment or decision from which appeal is taken. 21-4 FEES  An appeal to the Board of Zoning Adjustment for administrative review, special exception, variance. In addition, the actual costs for legal advertisements of the request and notifications to parties in interest shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. Fees paid for appeals to the Board of Zoning Adjustment Section 21-1, Subsection (f), (1), Administrative Review, after the Board has acted on an appeal may be returned to the appellant by resolution of the City Council, if the Board has ruled in favor of the appellant, and it is deemed appropriate to do so. 125     ARTICLE XXII  ZONING AMENDMENT  22-1 PROCEDURE  The City Council may, from time to time, after examination, review and public hearing thereon, amend, supplement or change the regulations and zoning districts herein or subsequently established, proposals for zoning amendments, whether initiated by the City Council, the Planning Commission, or any person, firm, or a corporation, shall be treated in accordance with the following procedure:  (a) An application on the prescribed form shall be submitted in writing to the Building Inspector thirty (30) days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting and, if appropriate, it must be accompanied by a complete site plan of the proposed use, an adjacent property owners list, warranty deed (proof of ownership), legal description of subject property, current survey, and a map of the subject property. Such site plan shall include the existing land use and zoning of the adjacent and surrounding properties. (b) The application shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission at its next regular meeting and said Commission shall have thirty (30) days from said regular meeting within which to submit a recommendation to the City Council. If the Commission fails to submit a recommendation to the City Council within the thirty (30) day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the proposed amendment. (c) Before the enactment of any amendment to this Ordinance, a public hearing thereon shall be held by the City Council with proper notice as required by law. (d) Said notice shall be published in full for one (1) insertion and an additional insertion Of a synopsis of the proposed amendment one (1) week after the first insertion in a newspaper of general circulation published in the municipality, both insertions shall be at least fifteen (15) days prior to the said public hearing; or, if no newspaper is published in the municipality, then said notice shall be posted in four (4) conspicuous places within the municipality at least fifteen (15) days prior to the said public hearing. Due notice shall also be given to the parties in interest of the date, time and place of said hearing. (e) Said public hearing shall be held at the earliest possible time to consider the proposed zoning amendment, and the City Council shall take action on said proposed zoning amendment within forty-five (45) days from the date of the public hearing, except in the case where the action of the City Council is not in accordance with the Planning Commission's certified recommendation. (f) In the case where the action of the City Council is not in accordance with the Planning Commission’s certified recommendation, the City Council shall not make any change or departure from the text or maps, as recommended and certified by the Planning Commission, unless such change or departure is first resubmitted to the Commission for an additional review and further recommendation. The Planning Commission shall have thirty (30) days to resubmit its   126 recommendation to the City Council. (g) Any petition for zoning amendment may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by the Planning Commission or City Council at the discretion of the owner, authorized representative, firm, or corporation initiating such a request upon written notice to the City Clerk. (h) A property owner, or his authorized representative, shall not initiate action for a zoning amendment affecting the same parcel of land more often than once every twelve (12) months from the date of the action taken by the City Council. The initiation date shall be at such time consideration is given by the Planning Commission. 22-2 REVERSIONARY CLAUSE  Any parcel or parcels of land rezoned to another zoning classification under the amendment authority of this Ordinance shall revert back to the prior zoning classification after one (1) year from the date of approval if said land is not being used for the permitted use for which it was rezoned. An extension of such time may be granted by the City Council upon written request by the applicant and recommendation of the Planning Commission. 22-3 FEES  An application submitted to the Planning Commission for a zoning amendment shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. 127     ARTICLE XXIII                 ANNEXATION  23-1 PROCEDURE  The City Council may, from time to time, after examination, review and public hearing thereon, amend, supplement or change the regulations and zoning districts herein or subsequently established. Any actions to amend, supplement or change the regulations, as well as any proposals for annexation, whether initiated by the City Council, the Planning Commission, or any person, firm, or a corporation, shall be treated in accordance with the following procedure:  (a) An application on the prescribed form shall be submitted in writing to the City Clerk thirty (30) days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission and, if concerning a specific piece of property, must be accompanied by an adjacent property owners list, warranty deed (proof of ownership), legal description of subject property, current survey, and a map of the subject property. (b) The application shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission at its next regular meeting and said Commission shall have thirty (30) days from said regular meeting within which to submit a recommendation to the City Council. If the Commission fails to submit a recommendation to the City Council within the thirty (30) day period, it shall be deemed to have recomended the proposed amendment. (c) Before enacting any amendment to this Ordinance, a public hearing thereon shall be held by the City Council with proper notice as required by law. (d) Said notice shall be published in full for one (1) insertion and an additional insertion of a synopsis of the proposed amendment one (1) week after the first insertion in a newspaper of general circulation published in the municipality, both insertions shall be at least fifteen (15) days prior to the said public hearing; or, if no newspaper is published in the municipality, then said notice shall be posted in four (4) conspicuous places within the municipality at least fifteen (15) days prior to the said public hearing. Due notice shall also be given to the parties in interest of the date, time, and place of said hearing. (e) Said public hearing shall be held at the earliest possible time to consider the proposed annexation, and the Council shall take action on said proposed annexation within forty-five (45) days from the date of the public hearing except in the case where the tentative action is not in accordance with the Planning Commission's certified recommendation. (f) In such case, the Council shall not make any change in or departure from the text or maps, as recommended and certified by the Planning Commission, unless such change or departure can be first resubmitted to the Commission for an additional review and recommendation. The Commission shall have thirty (30) days to resubmit its recommendation. (g) Any petition for annexation may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by the   128 Planning Commission or City Council at the discretion of the owner, authorized representative, firm, or corporation initiating such a request upon written notice to the City Clerk. 23-2 PROCEDURE FOR ZONING NEWLY ANNEXED LAND  Any unzoned land annexed to the City of Saraland hereafter shall automatically be classified as an R-1, Low Density Single Family Residential, district. The City Council may consider, after due process of publication and hearing as required by law, specific applications to zone newly annexed land into one or more existing or proposed new zoning classifications recommended by the Planning Commission. 23-3 FEES  An application to the Planning Commission for annexation shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV titled the Schedule of Fees. 129  ARTICLE XXIV  VACATION OF EASEMENT AND/OR RIGHT-OF-WAY  24-1 PROCEDURE (Ord. 985, 10-23-14)  The City Council may, from time to time, after examination and review thereon, amend, supplement, or change the subdivision requirements in regard to easements and right-of- ways provided herein or subsequently established, whether initiated by the City, or any person, firm, or a corporation. Said amendment, supplementation or change shall be treated in accordance with the following procedure:  (a) A full and complete application on the prescribed form shall be submitted in writing to the Planning Department prior to the agenda being finalized for any scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission and must be accompanied an adjacent property owners list, warranty deed (proof of ownership), legal description of subject property, current survey, and a map of the subject property. If the vacation is initiated by the City or its representative, no warranty deed will be required. However, the City or its representative shall provide copies of the plat or survey dedicating said easement or right-of-way to the City. (b) The application shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission at its next meeting. At said meeting the Planning Commission shall make a positive or negative recommendation concerning whether said easement or right-of-way shall be vacated and/or relocated. The applicant shall be notified of the date, time and location of when the Planning Commission shall review said application. Notice of the Planning Commission action shall be forwarded to the City Council. (c) The City Council, before enacting any amendment to this Ordinance, shall hold a public hearing thereon, and shall provide proper notice as required by law. Due notice shall also be given to the applicant and adjoining landowners of the date, time, and place of said hearing. Said notice of a vacation of right-of-way shall be published as required by Ala. Code §23-4-2 by the City Council. (d) Said easement or right-of-way shall be vacated and/or relocated upon the adoption by resolution of the City Council. (e) Any petition for vacation of easement and/or right-of-way may be withdrawn prior to action thereon by the Planning Commission or City Council at the discretion of the owner, authorized representative, firm, or corporation initiating such a request upon written notice to the City Clerk. 24-2 FEES  An application to the Planning Commission for vacation of easement and/or right-of-way shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee as more specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. 130 SECTION J MOBILE HOME, MANUFACTURED HOME, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PROVISIONS   131 ARTICLE XXV   MOBILE HOME PARK PROVISIONS  25-1 GENERAL  No new Mobile Home Parks are allowed with in the City. Existing Mobile Home Parks are allowed to continue as non-conforming uses, even if located within an R-5 District. Existing mobile homes located on R-5 zoned property as of the effective date of the Ordinance adopting this provision may continue to be located on said property, but are regulated pursuant to Section 9-2 only. 132  ARTICLE XXVI  MANUFACTURED HOMES PROVISIONS  26-1 GENERAL  Manufactured homes not meeting HUD standards (U.S.C. 5401) and not having the HUD Stamp Certification permanently attached shall not be installed, erected, or permitted. A manufactured home which otherwise qualifies as a single family dwelling unit under Article VIII, Section 8-2 hereof, shall be allowed to be placed or erected in certain residential zones upon compliance with the following requirements:  (a) A manufactured home may be located within any residential zone other than R-1, Low Density Single Family Residential, and R-2, Medium Density Single Family Residential, districts. (b) A manufactured home shall not be placed within a Planned Unit Development unless placement of manufactured homes within the Planned Unit Development are expressly provided in the Planning Unit Development documents. (c) The manufactured home shall be reviewed, approved, or disapproved by the Planning Commission as to the compatibility standards set forth in this Article. 26-2 LICENSE  Contractors doing any and all work required in the setting of a manufactured home shall be licensed by the State prior to receiving a license from the City of Saraland as is the same for erecting other types of structures, prior to the issuance of a Building Permit and a subsequent Certificate of Occupancy as defined in Article VII, Section 7-2, entitled the Building Official. 26-3 COMPLIANCE  (a) Manufactured homes shall be installed according to the standards established either by the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Statutory Law, Title 24, Housing Code of Alabama as amended from time to time, the Building Code, and the National Manufacturing Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, U.S.C. 5401. (b) It is intended that manufactured homes be designed and erected to be similar in appearance to permanent houses - not mobile units - generally with pitched roofs, eaves overhanging six (6) inches or more, and typical to an on-site conventionally built single family permanent dwelling as built in accordance with the Standard Housing Code. Manufactured homes shall be erected on permanent foundations meeting HUD standards (U.S.C. 5401) or Building Code standards and conforming to Title 24, Housing Code of Alabama, Chapter 535-X-13 and are deemed to be real property and taxed as such. 133 (c) Manufactured homes placed in residential zoning districts shall meet the minimum compatibility standards set forth in this Article, are subject to the requirements of the zoning district in which it is placed, except as otherwise provided herein. 26-4 COMPATIBILITY  (a) Placement of a manufactured home may be permitted after it has been reviewed and determined that the manufactured home is compatible with the general appearance of homes in the surrounding area if recommended by the Building Inspector and approved by the Planning Commission. Manufactured homes shall be compatible to site-built and other homes in the immediate general areas within the same zoning or residential district and/or area. Approval shall be granted upon finding that the manufactured home is substantially similar in size, siding material, roof material, foundation enclosure, and general aesthetic appearance to existing or proposed development in the same zoning district or residential area. 26-5 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS  The following shall apply:  (a) Minimum width:  The general shape, width, and appearance of the manufactured home shall conform to housing in adjacent or nearby locations to ensure compatibility of site-built houses and manufactured housing. (b) Roof pitch, overhang, and materials:  The general shape, appearance, and roofing material of the manufactured home shall be compatible with the exterior appearance of the housing in adjacent or nearby locations. (c) Exterior finish:  Any material may be used for exterior finish that is generally used in areas near the location where the manufactured home is to be sited. (d) Site orientation:  Manufactured homes shall be placed on the lot in such a manner as to be compatible with and reasonably similar in orientation to the other structures in the area. (e) Garages, carports, etc:  Garages and/or carports, landings, stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps, or other means of entrance for manufactured homes shall be compatible with the manufactured home and site-built garages and/or carports of site-built houses in adjacent or nearby locations and constructed in accordance with the Building Code at the time the manufactured home is sited. 134 (f) Towing devices:  All towing devices, including but not limited to wheels, axles, hitches, and transportation lights must be removed. (g) Foundation enclosure:  The manufactured home’s foundation forms an enclosure under exterior walls, unpierced except for ventilation and access, and conforms to Title 24, Housing Code of Alabama, Chapter 535-X-13. The type of material and method used for underpinning shall be consistent with that for site-built houses in adjacent or nearby locations. 135  ARTICLE XXVII  RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK PROVISIONS  27-1 GENERAL  The following regulations apply to all developments provided for the accommodation of transient recreational vehicles including travel trailers, campers, small mobile homes used for vacation purposes, motor homes, and similar transient residential vehicles. Recreation vehicle parks are uses permitted in B-2, General Business District subject to the approval of the Planning Commission and compliance with the requirements of the following provisions. 27-2 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS  The following shall apply:  (a)  No recreational vehicle park shall be located without direct access to a City, County, State, or Federal Highway with a minimum width of not less than fifty (50) feet and shall not direct traffic into adjacent residential districts. (b)  The minimum lot area per park shall be two (2) acres. (c)  Use of spaces in recreation vehicles parks shall be limited to travel trailers, mobile homes, motor homes, and campers. (d)  Users of the spaces shall meet all other applicable laws. Spaces shall be rented by the day or week only and an account of such space shall remain in the same trailer park for a period of not less than ninety (90) days. (e)  Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers, laundry facilities and other uses and structures customarily incidental to operation of a recreational vehicle park are permitted as accessory uses in any district which recreation vehicle parks are allowed provided:  (1)  Such establishments and the parking area primarily related to their operations shall not occupy more than ten (10) percent of the park area. (2)  Such establishments shall be restricted in their use to occupants of the park. (3)  Such establishments shall present no visible evidence of their commercial character which would attract customers other than occupants of the park. (4)  No space shall be so located that any part intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes shall be within thirty (30) feet of the right-of-way line of any major, collector, or minor street. (5)  Recreational vehicle parks designed for temporary use by mobile homes for recreational or other purposes shall conform to applicable the Mobile County Health Department regulations, provided that the plan for a proposed camp   136 site, extension, or replan of an existing camp site shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for approval prior to construction. (f) No individual transient recreational vehicle will be allowed to stay or otherwise be       located on or in any Recreational Vehicle Park for more than thirty (30) days during        any one (1) calendar year. 137 SECTION K MULTI-FAMILY PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS   138 ARTICLE XXVIII  FIXED DWELLING PROVISIONS APARTMENTS, TOWNHOUSES AND CONDOMINIUMS  28-1  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS     Apartments, townhouses, and condominiums are permitted in an R-4, High Density Single    and Multi-Family Residential, district subject to the approval of the Planning    Commission and compliance with the following requirements:  (a)  There shall be no more than eight (8) continuous dwelling units built in a row with the same front line. (b)  No side yard is required, except on corner and interior lots. The end of the building in any grouping shall conform to the side yard requirements of the district. (c)  No more than thirty (30) percent of the lot area shall be occupied by buildings. (d) Insofar as practicable, off-street parking facilities shall be located under habitable floors of the buildings or grouped in bays either adjacent to streets or in the interior of blocks. No off-street parking shall be more than one hundred (100) feet by the most direct pedestrian route from a door of the dwelling unit it intends to serve. (e) All complexes shall be required to connect to a public or private water and sanitary sewer system operating under the conditions of an NPDES permit from ADEM. No other means of waste disposal shall be permitted. (f) All other requirements within the district in which the apartments, townhouses, or condominiums are located shall prevail. (g) The total area which may be covered by buildings shall be compatible with the total area requirements of the zoning district in which the development is to occur. (h) The maximum height of buildings shall be compatible with the maximum building height requirements of the zoning district for which the development is to occur. (i) The minimum dimensions of open spaces in a Fixed Dwelling Development shall be as follows:  (1) Major open space opposite front or rear of building:  (a) Apartment, townhouse, or condominium structures  Minimum Feet - forty (40)  (b) One and two-family detached dwellings. Minimum Feet - thirty (30)   139 (2) Secondary open spaces opposite side or other walls:  (a) Apartment, townhouse, or condominium structures  Minimum Feet - fifteen (15)  (b) One-and two-family detached dwellings. Minimum Feet - twenty (20)    140   ARTICLE XXIX    RESERVED   141  ARTICLE XXX  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS  30-1 PURPOSE  The intent of this Article is to provide an opportunity for the best use of land, protection of valuable natural features in the community, provision of larger areas of recreational open space, more economical public services, and to encourage the unified development of tracts of land by permitting within the confines of an overall density limitation, much more creative, and flexible concepts in planning. 30-2 TYPES OF DEVELOPMENTS  (a) Fixed Dwelling Planned Unit Developments:  A group of two (2) or more fixed dwelling structures, together with other permitted uses, on a parcel of property of adequate size that is suitable for the intended use and in single ownership, with not less than sixty (60) feet of frontage on a public street which frontage shall serve as the principal means of access to the property. (b) Ownership:  A person, partnership or corporation. A property owners’ association, legally bound to one another, to carry out the provisions of this Article for the development and operation of a Planned Unit Development, likewise legally bound to execute the agreements as provided hereinafter. The property owners’ association of a condominium project, established under the provisions of Alabama law which has the power to execute the agreements as provided for hereinafter. 30-3 GENERAL REGULATIONS  The following regulations shall apply to all Planned Unit Developments and require that such developments:  (a) Shall be in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan or portion thereof as it may apply. (b) Shall be consistent in all respects with the purposes and intent of this Ordinance. (c) Shall advance the general welfare of the City and immediate vicinity. (d) Shall provide, through desirable arrangement and design, benefits which justify the deviations from development standards which would otherwise apply. (e) Shall also be reviewed and approved according to the procedures and criteria as set forth in Article XVII, Subdivision Review, if it is determined that the development is a subdivision according to the laws of Alabama. 142  30-4 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS  The following development regulations shall apply to all Planned Unit Developments:  (a) Provisions of residential districts as applicable shall generally be adhered to in all Planned Unit Developments. (b) All land proposed in the project for residential use, including outdoor use, off-street parking, interior drives, and other circulation ways may be counted in complying with the density requirements. (c) For any single family, two-family dwelling, any dwelling unit in a townhouse, or condominium building there shall be a private common area. Such common area shall include the space occupied by such dwelling or dwelling unit, with adjoining common area assigned exclusively to such dwelling unit of not less than six hundred (600) square feet in addition to private parking area. (d) All common areas not assigned to private occupancy as set forth above shall be assigned to the common use of all residents of the development, with such use assured in perpetuity as provided for above. Assignment and development of such common area shall be as follows:  (1) Access driveways. (2) Landscaped areas, comprising not less than ten (10) percent of all common area   required by this Article, may include the following:  (a) Pedestrian access walkways. (b) Children play areas. (c) General landscaped areas, flower gardens, and areas for passive recreation. (d) Swimming pools, including accompanying accessory structures, and areas for organized sports. (e) Any other areas suitable for the common area enjoyment of the residents. (e) Every residential structure in a development shall be within two hundred (200) feet of a hard-surfaced access drive no less than twenty (20) feet wide or a parking lot connected with such a drive. In addition, every dwelling or ground floor dwelling unit shall be directly accessible to service and emergency vehicles. (f) Private streets on common easements may be used to provide vehicular access to not more than thirty (30) dwelling units on any one such drive. In all other respects, the system of vehicular circulation for a development shall be provided by dedicated streets complying in all respects with the standards of the subdivision regulations;   143 the easement therefore may be counted as a part of the net area in complying with density limits, but may not be counted as a part of required landscape or recreation area. (g) Private streets shall be constructed in accordance with the subdivision regulations. No part of the streets may be used for the parking of vehicles. (h) Off-street parking spaces for dwelling units may be provided in group garages or parking lots within one hundred fifty (150) feet of the dwelling units to be served. Curb indented parking bays or courts may be permitted within the easement or street right-of-way, but not within the required street or sidewalk. Such parking shall be landscaped and shall be permitted only along easements or streets internal to the project and not along a street or major thoroughfare serving other uses. Such off- street parking spaces may be counted as part of the net area in calculating density, but shall not be counted as part of the required recreation area. 30-5 USES PERMITTED  (a) Principal Uses:  (1) Dwelling units of a permanent nature, for ownership or rental, including non- transient mobile homes. (2) Public parks and specialized recreation centers. (b) Accessory Uses:  (1) Home occupations. (See Home Occupation, as defined in Article XXXI). (2) Facilities for use of residents of the development:  (a) Recreation, children's nursery, kindergarten, laundry or similar services, any similar facility. (b) Off-street parking lots or garages. (c) Stores of the "local family shopping" or "convenience" nature provided for the use, primarily, of the residents, in any development comprising three hundred (300) or more dwelling units, with such commercial facilities subject to requirements in the B-1, Local Business, district. Maximum area devoted to such commercial uses shall be one (1) acre or five (5) percent of total acreage in the project, whichever is greater. 30-6 OTHER REQUIREMENTS  (a) Locational Requirements:  Each Planned Unit Development shall comply with the following:   144 (1) Shall be free of objectionable environmental characteristics, such as poor drainage, air pollution, undue noise, unsightliness, and similar problems. (2) Shall be so located as to assure a maximum of compatibility with other types of development. (3) Shall be connected to public or private community water and sanitary sewer facilities. No Planned Unit Development shall be approved without written certification from the appropriate utilities that adequate water and sewer services are available. (b) Open Space, Site Size, and Density:  Around every principal building, there shall be a minimum required open space, unobstructed by any other building; there shall be a minimum size for projects; there shall be a maximum density. The following rules apply:  (1) Minimum site size:  Adequate for the intended use as determined by the Planning Commission. (2) Maximum density:  Fourteen (14) units per acre. (3) Property line setback:  The minimum setbacks shall be compatible with the minimum setbacks as required in an R-4, High Density Single and Multi-Family Residential, district. (4)  Minimum usable open space:  Twenty-five percent (25%). 30-7 REVIEW PROCEDURE  The following shall apply:  (1) The developer should schedule an initial meeting with the Planning Commission. (2) For the initial meeting, a sketch plan of the proposed project should be furnished by the developer. If, during the initial meeting, it is determined that the project is a subdivision as defined by Alabama law, the developer shall comply with all requirements of the Subdivision Regulations. (3) If all land in the project is to remain in one ownership, as defined herein, the following points should be discussed with the developer:  (a) The present uses and character of the area. 145  (b) The road and street system, especially peripheral streets and proposed internal circulation patterns as related to requirements by Planned Unit Developments. (c) Public and private open areas and parks and trails. (d) Public utilities and services or their counterpart such as water, sewer, fire protection, surface drainage, school facilities, if any. (e) Types of structures to be built. (f) Proposed uses to be developed. 30-8 APPLICATION PROCEDURE  (a) The Sketch Plan:  Upon completion of initial discussions, the developer proposing a planned development should complete an application form requesting initial general review and approval of the project by the Planning Commission. This stage of review is often called sketch plan stage, although, if they wish, the developer may submit items from the preliminary plan stage and request the sketch plan and preliminary plan stages be combined. All sketches for planned development projects shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for review to ascertain the plan for any project complies with the conditions set forth in this Article and other applicable Sections of this Ordinance. The following items shall be submitted with the initial application:  (1)  A letter of transmittal officially submitting the proposal for development,  signed by the developer or his authorized representative. If submitted by  someone other than the current owner of the property, the letter should  include or be accompanied by satisfactory evidence of the existence of a purchase or lease agreement or other instrument, to ensure the current owner is in agreement with the proposed development. (2) Three (3) copies of a scaled general site development plan of the proposal showing the following information:  (a) Boundary lines of the property, including dimensions. (b) Location and names of all public streets adjoining or traversing the site. In the event no public street now adjoins the site, sufficient description by metes and bounds to identify the location of the site. (c) Identification of the name, plat book, and page number of any recorded subdivision comprising all or part of the site. 146 (d) Identification and location of any existing easements, water courses, lakes, or other significant natural features upon the site. (b) The Preliminary Plan:  The developer, after review and discussion of the sketch plan, shall prepare and submit a preliminary plan for review by the Planning Commission. The purpose of a preliminary plan is to provide an opportunity for somewhat detailed showing of the intent of the developer with regard to compliance with the requirements as outlined in this Article and to provide an initial hearing on the proposal. The following items shall be submitted with the preliminary plan application:  (1) The preliminary plan shall be received by the Planning Commission and if a rezoning of land will be necessary to accommodate any project, this plat can be used for the public hearing to be held in accordance with Alabama law. (2) Maps and written statement setting forth the details of the proposed development shall be included in the preliminary plan. The maps must show enough of the area surrounding the proposed development to demonstrate the relationship of the Planned Unit Development to the adjoining uses, both existing and those proposed by the developer. The facilities are to be identified as public or private. The maps shall be in a general schematic form and contain the following information:  (a) Maps should include the following information:  (1) The approximate topography at two (2) foot intervals. (2) Proposed land uses and the approximate location of existing and proposed buildings and other structures and uses adjacent to the site. (3) The character and approximate density of the dwellings. (4) The approximate location of all streets and rights-of-way, and walkways, and parking facilities. (5) Public uses including schools, parks, playgrounds and other open spaces. (6) Number of parking spaces. (7) Amount of impervious surface. (8) Generalized drainage plan. 147 (9) Development staging, if appropriate. (b) The written statements shall contain an explanation of:  (1) The character of the proposed development and the manner in which it has been designed to take advantage of the Planned Unit Development concept. (2) The proposed sewage disposal facilities. (3) Water supply and surface drainage provisions. (4) Evidence of adequate financial stability to complete the proposed project. (5) The present ownership of all of the land included within the Planned Unit Development project. (6) The method proposed to maintain private common open areas, buildings or other facilities, including copies of all legal documents necessary to accomplish this. (7) The general indication of the expected schedule of development. (c) If, after a public hearing, the Planned Unit Development project is approved, any rezoning needed shall be instituted subject to revocation and reversion to the original zoning designation of the land, if the final plan is not approved. (d) In the event approval has been conditioned on modification to the plan, then such preliminary plan approval shall not be effective until the developer has filed written consent to the modifications as required. e) If the developer wishes to develop the Planned Unit Development project in stages, the final plat submitted for review and approval may cover only the first stage to be developed, but succeeding stages of the final plan must be in substantial conformance to the approved preliminary plan. (f) If a final plan covering at least a portion of the area in the approved preliminary plat has not been filed within one (1) year, the preliminary plan approval shall expire. (c) The Final Plan:  The plan provides a specific and particular plan by which development and construction will take place. The final plan serves as the plan on which the Planning Commission and local government base a decision. 148  (1) In addition to those items specified for the preliminary plan, the final plan must include:  A map showing:  (a) Street location and nature of improvement. (b) Lot lines and lot designs. (c) The landscaping and tree planting plan. (d) Surface drainage system. (e) Peripheral setback forty (40) feet. (f) All easements. (g) Areas proposed to be conveyed, dedicated, or reserved for parks, parkways, playgrounds, school sites, public buildings and similar public and semi-public uses. (h) A plot plan for each building site, except single family residential lots and the common area, shall show the approximate location of all buildings, structures, improvements, and indicate the common area surrounding the buildings and structures. (i) Elevations or perspective drawings of all typical proposed structures and improvements, except single family residences and their accessory buildings. The drawings need not be in construction detail. (j) A development schedule indicating:  (1) The approximate date when construction of the project can be expected to begin. (2) The stages in which the project will be built and the approximate date when construction of each stage can be expected to begin. (3) The approximate dates when the development of each of the stages in the development will be completed. (4) The location of common area that will be provided for each phase. (k) The following plans and diagrams will be provided when the Planning Commission finds that the Planned Unit Development creates special problems of traffic or parking:  (1) An off-street parking and loading area plan. 149  (2) A circulation diagram indicating the proposed movement of vehicles, goods and pedestrians within the Planned Unit Development and to and from existing thoroughfares. (3) Any special engineering features and traffic regulation devices needed to facilitate or ensure the safety of this circulation pattern must be shown. (l) The plat shall be accompanied by written legal documents on behalf  of the owner, his heirs, successors, and assigns shall include:  (1) Provisions of the proposed development, as shown on the  plans and as set forth in specifications, shall be completed in  detail within such time frame as agreed upon by the Planning  Commission. (2)  Provisions of all land improvements intended for the common    use of all residents, including drives, walks, parking areas,    recreation facilities, equipment, all landscaped or other    common areas shall be maintained in perpetuity including    such servicing as may be required for the use of such land    improvements. (3)  Provisions of no future changes in the development shall be     made which would encroach upon the land used to comply     with the provisions of this Article as to density, common area,     yards, courts, vehicular access, automobile parking, building     coverage, or other outdoor requirements. (4) Provisions of all easements for private drives, utility lines,  and similar purposes shall be open at all times for access by  publicly employed personnel and equipment for police and  fire protection, for inspection of utility systems, and for any  other public purpose. (5) Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws for the formation of a  Property Owners' Association for the Planned Unit  Development. (6) A Declaration of Restrictions and Covenants which shall  include agreements and provisions to govern the use,  maintenance and continued protection of the Planned Unit  Development, and all of its common areas. Such declarations  shall be consistent with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or other  similar Federal or State requirements. (7) A written legal opinion from the Applicant/Owner's Attorney  stating the above legal documents comply with applicable  Federal and State Laws. 150  (d) Final Plan Approval:  The following shall govern approval of a final plan:  (1) The Planning Commission shall compare the final plan with the preliminary plan and with the standards set forth in this Article to assure that the final plan conforms to said standards. The Planning Commission may place conditions upon the granting of approval which, in its judgment, will ensure conformance to the plan as approved. (2) The approval of the final plan or any stage of it shall be valid for a period of one (1) year following the date of such approval. (3) Factors to be considered by the administrative staff and the Planning Commission in reviewing any Planned Unit Development are that the development is in harmony with the Comprehensive Plan and with the character of the neighborhood and will provide an overall density and standard of open space as required by this Ordinance. (4) The final plan or any stage of the Planned Unit Development shall not be approved if the average of the allowable dwelling units per acre, up to and including the stage which is to be approved, exceeds by more than ten percent (10%) of the average number of dwelling units per acre which is allowable for the development. (5) A report of its findings and recommendations on a proposed Planned Unit Development shall be prepared for and acted on by the Planning Commission. Such report shall constitute a recommendation to the City Council for action should rezoning be necessary. (6) Upon final approval and after all conditions have been met, the Planning Commission shall approve the recording of the Final Plan in the deed records of the County. When no parcels are to be sold, the developer will process and have recorded the subdivision plat in the manner designated by the Commission. (e) Substantial Conformance:  The determination of substantial conformance between the preliminary plan and the final plan shall be at the discretion of the Planning Commission. Variation in conformance is intended solely to facilitate the minor adjustments which may be necessary as the plans approach a final construction stage. The Commission may refuse to grant approval of substantial conformance if, in their opinion, the adjustments are being used to significantly modify the approved plan. (f) Site Improvements:  The developer, at his option, may place street improvements, sidewalks, utilities, and   151 other permanent site improvements after preliminary plan approval or stake the location of the buildings and make application for building permits. Under no circumstances, however, will any building permit be issued until final approval has been granted and the necessary portions of the final plan recorded. The placing of improvements will not obligate the local government to approve such improvements on the final plan if not in conformance with the terms of this Article. (g) Public Record:  The final plan is the permanent public record of the Planned Unit Development and will be the manner in which the development is constructed as provided herein. (h) Contents:  The final plat shall contain, in final form, the information required above. In addition, the following will apply:  If parcels of land are to be sold, a subdivision plat on the forms prescribed by according to the criteria as set forth in Article XVII, Subdivision Review, and shall be filed for approval in the appropriate manner. 152 ARTICLE XXXI  HOME OCCUPATIONS,  AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS, AND CEMETERIES  31-1 HOME OCCUPATIONS (Ord. 1070, 1-12-17)  Home occupations shall be incidental to the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential residential character of the dwelling or adversely affect the uses permitted in the district of which the home occupation is to occur. No home occupation shall be permitted which might interfere with the general welfare of the surrounding residential area due to potential noise, increased pedestrian and vehicular traffic, or any other condition which would constitute an objectionable use of residentially zoned property. Factors to be considered in approving a specific home occupation include the effort and ability required by City staff to ensure compliance with the home occupation permitted and any restrictions placed on a given home occupation. Limitations on the type of home occupations are as follows:  (a) Area used shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the gross floor area in the principal building. (b) It shall be confined entirely to the principal building, accessory building, or outside storage building for which twenty percent (20%) of gross floor area would apply. (c) Employment shall be limited to members of the family residing in the dwelling. There shall be no employment of employees other than members of the resident family. In no case shall more than two (2) persons be engaged in the home occupation. (d) No internal or external addition, alteration, or remodeling of the dwelling is permitted in connection with the home occupation. (e) Chemical, mechanical, or electrical equipment that creates odors, light, glare, noises, or interference in radio or television reception detectable outside of the dwelling shall be prohibited. (f) No display of products shall be visible from the street and only articles made on the premises may be sold; except non-durable articles, consumable products, which are incidental to a service or which service shall be the principal use in the home occupation may be sold on the premises. (g) Instruction in music, dancing, and similar subjects shall be limited to two (2) students at a time. (h) The activity carried on as a home occupation shall be limited to the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.  (i) One professional or announcement sign may be used to identify the customary home   153 occupation. Such sign shall not exceed one and one-half (1-1/2) square feet in area exposed to view and must be mounted flat to the main wall of the principal building. No such sign shall be directly illuminated. (j) The nature of some uses tends to increase beyond the limits permitted for a home occupation and could impair the use and value of a residentially zoned area; therefore, the following shall not be permitted as a customary home occupation:  (1) Uses which do not meet the provision listed above. (2) Automobile body and/or fender repairing. (3) Automotive sales (4) Barber shops and beauty parlors. (5) Boat Sales (6) Food handling on a large-scale basis, processing, or packing. (7) Repair, manufacturing and processing uses; however, this shall not exclude the home occupation of a dressmaker where goods are not manufactured for stock, sale, or distribution. (8) Restaurants. (9) Uses which entail the harboring, training, raising or treatment of dogs, cats, birds, or other animals. (10) Ammunition sales (11) Acupuncture office and / or practice (12) Dental offices and / or practice (13) Gun sales (14) Medical offices and / or practice (15) Painting of vehicles (16) Private schools with organized classes (17) Small engine repairs (18) Welding shop (19) Outdoor display or storage of materials, goods, supplies, or equipment used in the operation of the business shall be permitted outside the dwelling (20) Flammable, caustic or noxious material not commonly found in the home may not be stored or kept on the premises  (k) Customary home occupations may be subject to annual inspection by the Code Enforcement Officer and/or Revenue Officer. The following is a list of permissible home occupations which may be allowed, provided such use meets the criteria and limitations in 31-1 (a-i):  (1) Carpentry, wood working (2) Child daycare/family day care in a residential dwelling for no more than 5 children and meet the state requirements (3) Cleaning services, maid services (4) Dance/music instruction, tutoring (5) Dressmaking, tailoring, sewing (6) Free-lance photography or art studio (7) Handyman services (8) Insurance salesman (9) Landscaping services (10) Making custom home furnishings   154 (11) Massage therapist (12) Mental health specialist, psychoanalysis practice, psychiatry office (this service specifically does not include psychics or fortune telling) (13) Office of religious or church leader (14) Professional offices: attorney, architect, planner, engineer, accountant/accounting, consulting, book keeping, designer (15) Screen writer, authors, composers (16) Speech pathologist (17) Television repair, computer repair, telephone repair (18) Therapist, all therapy must take place off-site (19) Upholstering (20) Website designer (21) Contractor (administrative offices only) (l) All commercial vehicles associated with a home occupation shall be parked on private property, outside of the City right-of-way. 31-2 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS  Within the districts permitting automobile service stations, the following requirements shall apply:  (a) Location:  The property on which an automobile service station is located shall not be within one hundred (100) feet of any residential district or any property containing a school, public playground, church, hospital, public library, or an institution for children, elderly, or dependents. (b) Site Requirements:  An automobile service station shall have a minimum frontage on the primary street of one hundred twenty (120) feet and a minimum lot area of twelve thousand (12,000) square feet. All buildings shall be set back forty (40) feet from all street right-of-way lines, fifty (50) feet for U.S. Highway 43, and all canopies shall be set back fifteen (15) feet from all street right-of-way lines. (c) Access to Site:  Vehicular entrances or exits at an automobile service station:  (1) Shall not be provided with more than two (2) curb cuts for the first one hundred twenty (120) feet of street frontage or a fraction thereof. (2) Shall contain an access width along the curb line of the street of not more than forty (40) feet as measured parallel to the street at its narrowest point and shall not be located closer than ten (10) feet to the adjoining property. (3) Shall not have any two (2) driveways, or curb cuts, any closer than twenty (20) feet at both the right-of-way line and the curb or edge of the pavement   155 along a single street. (d) Gasoline Pump Islands:  All gasoline pump islands shall be set back at least fifteen (15) feet from the right- of-way line, or where a future widening line has been established, the setback line shall be measured from such line, and where pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the right-of-way line, they shall also be at least fifteen (15) feet from the right-of-way, however, the pumps shall be at least sixty (60) feet from the center line of an arterial street, fifty-five (55) feet from the center line of a collector street and forty-five (45) feet from the center line of other streets. (e) Off-Street Parking:  A minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces are required with an additional off- street parking space for each lubrication or wash bay. (f) Other Site Improvements:   In addition to the above referenced requirements, the following site improvements shall be adhered to:  (1) A raised curb of at least six (6) inches in height shall be erected along the street property lines, except for driveway openings. (2) A wall or fence of a solid appearance shall be at least six (6) feet in height and of a construction and design approved by the Planning Commission and/or a staggered double row of Evergreen plantings at least ten (10) feet in width which shall grow to at least ten (10) feet in height at planting and spaced in a manner which after three (3) years will provide an impervious visual barrier. Said protection buffer shall be maintained by the owner of the property in order to conceal such areas or facilities from a residential district adjoining, facing, across a street, in the rear, or on the side of the principal building or use. (3) Outdoor lighting of all types shall be directed so as to reflect away from all residential dwellings and shall be so situated as not to reflect directly onto a public right-of-way. (4) Signs, whether permanent or temporary, shall not be placed within the public right-of-way and shall be arranged so they do not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians. (5) All driving, parking, storage, and service areas shall be paved and curbed and a good stand of grass shall be maintained on the remainder of the lot. 31-3 CEMETERIES  Within districts permitting cemeteries, the following requirements shall apply:   156 (a) The site proposed for a cemetery shall not interfere with the development of a system of collector or larger streets in the vicinity of such site. In addition, such site shall have direct access to a thoroughfare. (b) Any new cemetery shall not be located on a site containing less than twenty (20) acres. (c) All structures shall be set back no less than twenty-five (25) feet from any property line or minor street right-of-way. (d) All graves or burial lots shall be set back not less than twenty-five (25) feet from any property line or minor street right-of-way line and not less than fifty (50) feet from any collector or arterial street. (e) The entire cemetery property shall be landscaped and maintained. (f) An application must be made to the Board of Zoning Adjustment for any extension of an existing cemetery. 157 SECTION L TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER AND FACILITIES PROVISIONS   158 ARTICLE XXXII  TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS AND FACILITIES PROVISIONS  32-1 PURPOSE  The intent of this Article is to establish minimum standards for wireless telecommunications facilities. The underlying principals of these standards are to:  • Achieve a balance among the number, height, and density of wireless telecommunications facilities that are appropriate for our communities; and,  • Encourage and maximize the use of existing and approved towers, buildings, and other structures to accommodate new wireless telecommunications facilities; and,  • Ensure the compatibility of towers with, and avoid adverse impacts to, nearby properties; and,  • Discourage the proliferation of towers throughout the City. 32-2 DEFINITIONS  • Accessory structure compound: A fenced, secured enclosure in which a wireless telecommunications facility and its equipment, buildings, access roads, parking area and other accessory devices/auxiliary structures are located. • Alternative support structure: Any structure other than a wireless telecommunications tower, which may include, but is not limited to, buildings, water towers, light poles, power poles, telephone poles, and other essential public utility structures. • Antenna: An electromagnetic device which conducts radio signals, through an attached cable or waveguide, to or from a radio transmitter or receiver. Typically this includes "whips,” "cornucopia horns,” "panels,” and parabolic "dishes.”  • Antenna support structure: Any structure on which telecommunications antennas and cabling can be attached. Typically this includes steel towers with guy-wires (guyed towers); wooden, steel or concrete single poles (monopoles); self-supporting steel towers with three or four "legs" (self-supporting/lattice towers); rooftops of existing buildings or structures (such as elevated water storage tanks). (See Also Tower). • Co-location: The placement of more than one wireless communications antenna by one or more telecommunications service providers on a single existing or new antenna support structure. Concealment techniques: Design techniques used to blend a wireless telecommunications facility, including any antennas thereon, unobtrusively into the existing surroundings so as to not have the appearance of a wireless telecommunications facility. Such structures shall be considered wireless   159 telecommunications facilities and not spires, belfries, cupolas, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level for purposes of applying height such as building bulk, massing, and architectural treatment of both the wireless telecommunications facility and surrounding development. Concealed towers on developed property must be disguised to appear as either a part of the structure housing, a principal use, or an accessory structure which is normally associated with the principal use occupying the property. Concealed towers developed on unimproved property must be disguised to blend in with the existing vegetation. Example: a tower of such design and treated with architectural material so camouflaged to resemble a woody tree with a single trunk and branches on its upper part, also known as a "monopine". • FAA: Federal Aviation Administration. • FCC: Federal Communications Commission. • Height: When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured from the ground level at the base of the tower to the highest point on the tower or structure, including if said highest point is an antenna placed on a structure or tower. • Tower: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antenna, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, and the like (See Also Antenna Support Structure). 32-3 PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS  (a) Permitted Zones:  Wireless telecommunications facilities shall be permitted by special exception in a B-2, General Business, district and by right in a C/I, Commercial/Industrial, district. Antennas located on existing towers (co-location antennas) and antennas located on alternative support structures shall be permitted by right. (b) Height:  Antennas located on alternative support structures shall not exceed fifteen (15) feet in height above the existing structure on which they are placed. Tower height shall be limited to one hundred and eighty (180) feet. (c) Setbacks:  Where a tower is permitted in a zoning district adjacent to any residential district, the required setback from all residentially zoned property lines shall be a distance equal to the height of the tower. (d) Co-location:   160  To minimize adverse visual impact associated with the proliferation and clustering of telecommunication towers, co-location of facilities on existing or new towers shall be encouraged by:  (1) Only issuing permits to Qualified Shared Facilities at locations where it appears there may be more demand for towers than the property can reasonably accommodate; or,  (2) Giving preference to Qualified Shared Facilities over other facilities and authorizing use at particular locations;  (3) For a facility to become a Qualified Shared Facility. The facility owner shall show the following:  (a) The facility is appropriately designed for sharing; and,  (b) The facility owner is prepared to offer adequate space on the facility so others share fair and reasonable nondiscriminatory terms. (c) Co-location of communications antennas by more than one provider on existing or new telecommunications towers shall take precedence over the construction of a new single-use telecommunications tower. (d) For any telecommunications tower approved for shared use, the owner of the tower shall provide notice of the location of the telecommunication tower. (e) No new antenna support structure shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates that no existing antenna support structure can accommodate the applicant's needs. (f) No signage, symbols, or advertisements may be attached to the pole, tower or antenna. (g) Monopole structures shall have the ability to accommodate at least one (1) additional set of antennas. Guyed structures and self-supporting towers shall have the ability to accommodate at least two (2) additional sets of antennas. (e) Aesthetics:  The aesthetic properties of each individual wireless telecommunications facility shall be approved as part of the site plan review process. (f) Appearance:  The design of the tower shall be of a type that has the least visual impact on the surrounding area. 161  (1) Towers and antennas shall be painted a neutral or blending color so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness, unless subject to any applicable FAA standards. If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and supporting telecommunications facilities must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure. (2) No signage, symbols, or advertisements may be attached to the pole, tower, or antenna. (3) Towers camouflaged to resemble trees or indigenous vegetation in order to blend in with the native landscape shall be subject to administrative review as are types of concealment techniques. (See Concealment Techniques). (g) Accessory structures:  (1) The design of the compound and its accessory structures shall, to the extent possible, maximize use of building materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that effectively blend the tower facilities within the surrounding natural setting and built environment. (2) In or adjacent to developed properties, accessory structures must be aesthetically and architecturally compatible with the surrounding environment. Materials such as wood, brick, and stucco should be appropriate. The use of metal or metallic looking materials shall be prohibited. (h) Non vegetative screening:  (1) Non vegetative screening shall be required unless it is necessary to reduce the visual impact of a wireless telecommunication compound on adjacent public ways, properties, or the neighborhood in which it is located. In or adjacent to developed properties, non vegetative screening shall be provided in a manner compatible with the surrounding character of development, buildings, natural vegetation, and landscaping. Such screening, as required and subject to site plan review, shall have a minimum height of eight (8) feet, and may consist of one of the following: brick masonry walls, a fence of a solid appearance, berms, or opaque barriers. All non-vegetative screening shall be properly maintained by the property owner or lessor. (2) In certain locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, such as remote, agricultural, or rural or heavily developed industrial areas, the non-vegetative screening requirement may be reduced. (3) Wireless telecommunications facilities utilizing underground vaults rather than above ground equipment buildings may be exempted from screening requirements. 162  (i) Landscaping:  (1) Landscaping will be required to reduce the visual impact of the compound and its accessory structures on adjacent public ways, properties, or the neighborhood in which it is located. In or adjacent to developed properties, landscaping shall be provided in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding character of development, buildings, and natural vegetation. (2) The perimeter of the compound shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant materials which effectively screen the view of the compound from adjacent property and public ways. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscape strip of at least five (5) feet in width outside the perimeter of the compound. In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced. (3) A row of trees a minimum of eight (8) feet in height and a maximum of ten (10) feet apart shall be planted around the perimeter of the compound fence. A continuous hedge at least thirty (30) inches in height at planting capable of growing to at least thirty-six (36) inches in height within eighteen (18) months shall be planted in front of the tree line. (4) All landscaping shall be of the evergreen variety. All landscaping shall be xeriscape tolerant or irrigated and properly maintained by the property owner or lessor to ensure good health and variety. (j) Lighting:  (1) Towers shall not be artificially lighted unless required by the FAA or other authority for safety purposes. If lighting is required, "dual lighting,” red at night/strobe during day, shall be preferred unless restricted by the FAA. Lighting must be shielded or directed upward to the greatest extent possible so as to minimize the amount of light that falls onto nearby properties or residential districts. (2) Basic security lighting for the compound may be permitted, but shall be focused only on the compound itself, and shall be directed away from any adjacent residential districts. (k) Environmental impact:  All wireless telecommunications facilities shall comply with the National Environmental Policy Act. If an environmental assessment is required by the federal Communications Commission (FCC), a copy of the assessment, as well as documentation of the FCC's subsequent approval thereof, must be submitted at the time of application. (l) Safety:   163 (1) Radio frequency:  The applicant shall be required to submit documentation that the proposed wireless telecommunications facility complies with the FCC standards for radio frequency emissions, as adopted by the FCC on August 1, 1996. (2) Structural:  A Professional Engineer shall certify that all antenna support structures and wireless telecommunications equipment are erected and/or installed so as to comply with the co-locations requirements of this Ordinance, wind loading and other structural standards contained in the Building Code as adopted by the City of Saraland and the applicable technical codes established by the Electronic Industries Association (EIA/TIA 22-E "Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures) or the Telecommunications Industry Association. This shall apply to new and modified structures and facilities. (3) Security of the site:  Fencing shall be required to ensure that antenna support structures and their accessory buildings are fully secured. Sufficient anti-climbing measures must be incorporated into each facility, as needed, to reduce potential for trespass and injury. (4) Obsolete towers:  In the event the use of any wireless telecommunications facility has been discontinued for the period of one hundred and eighty (180) days, the wireless telecommunications facility shall be deemed to be abandoned. The determination of the date of the abandonment shall be made by the Building Official. Upon such abandonment, the owner/operator of the wireless telecommunications facility shall have an additional one hundred and eighty (180) days within which to reactivate the use of the wireless telecommunications facility to another owner/operator who makes actual use of the wireless telecommunications facility, dismantle, or remove the wireless telecommunications facility. 164 SECTION M SIGN PROVISIONS    165 ARTICLE XXXIII  SIGN PROVISIONS Originally Adopted December 27, 2007 Revised April 11, 2013  33-1 PURPOSE  The intent of this Article is to further the purpose stated in Article I and is designed to govern the effective use of signs as a means of communications; to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare by governing the type, number, location, physical dimensions, setback and other standards to signs in each of the use districts established in this Ordinance; to prevent the disruptions, obstructions and hazards to vehicular and pedestrian traffic that signs may cause; to minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and private property; and to encourage a positive visual environment in harmony with the natural beauty of the City of Saraland. 33-2 GENERAL PROVISIONS  The following apply:  (a) General:  (1) Permit Requirements:  No sign, unless herein excepted, shall be erected, constructed, posted, painted, altered, maintained, or relocated, until a permit has been issued by the Building Official, or his designee. Before any permit shall be issued, an application on prescribed forms, which shall indemnify and hold harmless the City of Saraland for all damages, demands, or expenses of every character which may in any manner be caused by the erection and use of said sign or sign structure, shall be filed together with such drawings and specifications as may be necessary to fully advise and acquaint the Building Official, or his designee, with the location, size, type of structure, construction materials, manner of illuminating, manner of securing or fastening, number of signs applied for, and the wording of the sign or advertisement to be carried on the sign in order to show compliance with the sign ordinance. (2) Size Restrictions Applicable:  Any permitted sign shall be subject to the size and height limitations imposed by this Ordinance for the zoning district in which said sign is located, except as otherwise provided herein. (b) Location:  (1) Right-of-Way Placement Prohibited:  No outdoor advertising sign or sign structure shall be placed upon any street or highway right-of-way, except as otherwise provided herein. 166  (2) All signs shall maintain a five (5) feet setback from side property lines. (3)  View Obstruction Prohibited:  No outdoor advertising sign or sign structure shall be located in such a manner as to materially impede the line of sight or the view of any street or highway intersection. (4) Ingress/ Egress Impediment Prohibited:  No outdoor advertising sign or sign structure shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free ingress/egress from any door, window, or fire escape. (c) Illumination:  (1) Direction and Intensity:  Devices that illuminate a sign or signs shall be placed and shielded so that direct light shall not be cast at any portion of the traveled way of any roadway. Lights which are of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or to impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle or which otherwise interfere with any driver’s operation of a motor vehicle are prohibited. (2) Interference:  No sign may be illuminated as to interfere with the effectiveness of or obscure an official traffic sign, device, or signal. 33-3 DEFINITIONS  Refer to the Saraland Sign Reference for definitions and picture examples of sign types. • Address Numbers: Numbers used for the purposes of identifying the E-911 address of any residential or non-residential property. • Banner: Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is mounted to a pole or a building at one or more edges. • Bench Sign: A sign of any size permanently or temporarily affixed in any manner to a bench. • Billboard: A large elevated off-premises or off-site sign intended for view by the general public, advertising an establishment, merchandise, product, service or entertainment which is not sold, provided, manufactured, or furnished on the property on which said sign is located. • Bunting: a lightweight loosely woven fabric used typically for flags and festive decorations. 167 • Changeable Copy Sign/Reader Board: A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face of the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than eight (8) times per day shall be considered an animated sign and not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this Ordinance. A sign on which the only copy that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or temperature shall be considered a "time and temperature" portion of a sign and not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this Ordinance. • Commercial Complex: Two (2) or more businesses that share an address number and street name, but that have separate suites with individual suite numbers and/or letters  • Construction Sign: Any sign giving the name or names of principal contractors, designers, architects, and lending institutions responsible for construction on the premises during the time actual construction work is in progress. • Flashing, Electronic and/or Intermittent Illuminating Signs: Signs which are illuminated and contain intermittent illumination or other animated lighting component. • Feather Flag: A portable vertical type banner attached to a flexible pole. These flags are available in various shapes and sizes. • Hanging Sign: Any sign mounted to extend vertically below a marquee or canopy. • Legal Nonconforming Sign: (See Article XXXIII, Section 33-7 for Definition). • Marquee: A permanent roof like structure extending from part of the wall of a building but not supported by the ground; possibly designed to allow changeable copy, either manually or electronically, which may overhang the public way. • Menu Type Sign: A permanent sign, which is not designed or located so as to be legible from any public right-of-way, depicting products that can be purchased on site, and is part of a drive-through service (i.e. fast food restaurants). • Nonconforming Sign: Any sign not in compliance with the Sign Ordinance. • Off-Premise Sign: A billboard or other sign relating its subject matter or any portion thereof to a premise other than the premises on which said sign is located. • On-Premise Sign: A sign relating its subject matter to the premises on which said sign is located. • Pennant: Triangular shaped flag. May also refer to a streamer with multiple pennants adjoined one to another. • Permanent Sign: A sign permanently affixed to a building or the ground. • Pole/Pylon Sign: A freestanding sign that is erected or affixed to one or more poles or posts. 168  • Political Sign: A sign identifying and urging voter support for or in opposition to a particular issue, political party, or candidate for public office. • Portable Sign: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported. • Premises: An area of land with its appurtenances and buildings which, because of its unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of real estate (see Article VIII, 8-2 (161)(n)). • Projecting Sign: Any sign which is perpendicularly affixed to a wall or building and is supported only by the wall on which the sign is mounted. • Real Estate Sign: A sign which advertises the sale, rental or development of the premises upon which it is located, or directs people to a property that is for sale, rent, or subject to development. • Sandwich Sign: Any sign, double or single faced, which is portable and may readily be moved from place to place. • Shopping Center: a group of two (2) or more commercial businesses usually within close proximity to one another and that may share parking. • Shopping Center Sign: A freestanding sign that displays signage for two (2) or more commercial businesses. • Sign: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or marks or combinations thereof, by which anything is made known, such as the designation of an individual, a firm, an association, a profession, a business, a commodity, or product which are visible from any public way and used as an outdoor display. This also includes the structure, poles, foundation, etc. supporting the sign. • Sign Height: The vertical distance from the finished grade at the base of the supporting structure to the top of the sign, its frame, or supporting structure, whichever is higher. Such grade shall not be altered from the natural ground elevation. • Sign Surface Area: The surface area of a sign shall be computed for the area within the periphery of regular geometric forms, comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all the elements of the matter displayed, but not including structural elements of the sign bearing no advertising matter. • Snipe Sign: A sign that is tacked, nailed, tied, posted, pasted, glued or otherwise attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences or other objects not approved for the displaying of signage. Typically, but not always, they are off premise signs. • Streamer: any long narrow wavy strip allowed to float or wave in the wind. Typically bright or metallic in color in order to attract attention. 169 • Temporary Sign: A sign or advertising display intended to be displayed for a short period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days. • Traffic Signs: Official government signs used for the purpose of safely directing vehicular and pedestrian traffic  • Vehicle Signs: Any sign affixed to, wrapped around, or painted on a vehicle. • Wall Sign: A sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building with the face parallel to the plane of the building wall. • Window Sign: Any sign placed inside or upon a window. • Yard Sign: Non-permanent type signs usually used for advertisement and informational purposes. They are lightweight, yet strong enough to withstand most weather conditions. 33-4 SIGNS FOR WHICH NO PERMIT IS REQUIRED  The following signs may be erected or constructed without a permit but shall comply with the structural and safety requirements of the current building codes and all other applicable provisions of this Ordinance. (a) Traffic Signs:  Official traffic signs or sign structures, or municipal information signs and provisional warning signs or sign structures, when erected or required to be erected by a governmental agency. All traffic signs placed by private developers or private property owners shall be in accordance with the most current edition of the Alabama Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), and any revisions thereof. (b) Vehicle Signs:  Any sign on a truck, bus, or other vehicle that is used in the normal course of a business for transportation and not for the sole purpose of advertising. (c) Address Numbers:  General:  No new sign permits shall be issued for any property unless the street address of the property is displayed in an easily identifiable location. Except where the address is also the name of the business or institution owning or occupying the premises, address numbers will not be included in the signage area of a sign. (d) Real Estate Signs:  (1) General Provisions:   170  Real estate signs, temporary in nature, non-illuminated, not exceeding six- and-one-half (6.5) square feet in area for residential and thirty-two (32) square feet for non-residential, advertising real estate for sale or lease or rent, or announcing contemplated improvements of real estate; one (1) sign for each street frontage will be allowed on the site and shall be removed within ten (10) days, upon closing, rental, or completion of improvements. (2) Real Estate Directional Signs:  Real Estate directional signs will not be allowed, except as provided below:  "Open House" signs, which identify homes/houses when a selling agent is on the site that is open for the general public to view. Said sign(s) size shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area. Such signs may be placed at intersections for a period of one (1) day before the open house and removed the day of the open house, after the completion of the open house. Signs shall be placed in a manner such that they do not constitute a traffic hazard. No more than four (4) directional open house signs may be placed in the corporate limits for any one open house and only one (1) route designated by signs to a particular open house and only one (1) sign per company at any one intersection. (3) Violations:  Any person who fails to remove the sign(s) within the prescribed time period outlined above shall be fined upon conviction, not less than fifty dollars ($50) per sign remaining. Chronic violations may result in the enforcement of Article II, Section 2-8, entitled Penalties and Remedies. (e) Temporary Promotional Sign Allowance for Commercial and Retail Establishments:  The following signage shall be allowed. That which is not specifically provided herein shall be requested by permit application. Promotional Weekend and Nationally Recognized Holidays:  On the last Friday of each month and any State recognized holiday, retail and commercial establishments duly licensed to do business within the corporate limits shall be permitted to display three (3) each of any three (3) types of the following items, for a total of nine (9) items. However, all such items shall be removed from the premises at the close of the final business day of the weekend. 171 Temporary decorative signs, pennants, streamers, bunting, balloons, and flags. (Reference: Section 33-4, Subsection (g), for provisions governing use of flags). Each commercial or retail establishment shall be permitted to choose any three (3) types of signage from the foregoing list on each weekend specified and shall be limited to the use of only those three (3) types of items chosen during any given promotional weekend. (f) Political Signs:  Political signs may be displayed for the duration of a campaign and shall be removed within five (5) days following the election. A candidate shall not place signs prior to qualifying to run for office with the qualifying entity administering the election. Signs shall not be placed within the right-of-way and shall not impede the line of sight or the view of any street, highway, or intersection. (g) Flags:  National flags and flags of political subdivision of the United States and flags of bona fide civic, charitable, religious, academic, corporate, fraternal, and welfare organizations when displayed from a maximum of three (3) flag staffs per premises in accordance with United States Public Law 623 (Flag Display Practice). There shall be no more than three (3) flags allowed per premise. (h) On-Premise Directional Signs and Symbols:  (1) Non-advertising directional signs or symbols (e.g., arrows, entrance, exit, caution, slow, no trespassing) located on and pertaining to a parcel of private property, not to exceed two (2) square feet with a maximum height of three and one half (3.5) feet from the ground. Such directional signs may have the name or symbol of the business, but may not contain advertisements for sales, specials, and the like. (2) Property Owners Associations (i.e., POAs) will be allowed to place interior directional signs along city right-of-ways in neighborhoods. Said signs shall be no greater than two (2) square feet with a maximum height of three and one half (3.5) feet from the ground, constructed of wood material, and sand blasted, carved or other similar lettering, aesthetically designed to harmoniously blend with the surrounding neighborhood. (i) Memorial Signs and Historical Markers:  Memorial signs and historical markers constructed of bronze, stone or other incombustible material after historical authentication and location is approved by the City Council. (j) Professional, Announcement or Occupational Signs:   172  One (1) each professional, announcement or occupational sign non-directly illuminated and flat wall mounted, and/or one (1) each outdoor advertising sign for privately-owned premises or business location, provided the area of the sign or the combined areas of both signs, if two (2) signs are erected, does not exceed six (6) square feet, and provided the premises or business location is without a permitted sign. (See Home Occupations, as defined in Article XXXI, Section 31-1, Subsection (i). (k) Non-Commercial Yard Sale or Garage Sale Temporary Signs:  Noncommercial yard sale or garage sale temporary signs not exceeding four (4) square feet, which display the date(s), time, and the address of the sale. No more than four (4) directional signs may be placed per yard sale. Said signs shall be removed as soon as the sale is concluded. (l) Signs Incorporated on Machinery or Equipment:  Signs incorporated on machinery or equipment which advertise only the product or service dispensed by the machine or equipment, such as signs customarily affixed to vending machines, newspaper racks, and gasoline pumps, provided the combined area of such signs does not exceed two (2) square feet. This shall include signs commonly referred to as “Pump Toppers” on top of gasoline pumps and shall be limited to two and one-half (2.5) square feet in dimension. In recognition that parent oil companies often provide said signs to the subsidiary stations, minor deviations in size shall be allowed, subject to the approval of the Building Official, or his designee. (m) Indoor Signage or Window Signs:  Indoor signage or window signs which identify the name of the business, drawings or pictures on the glass surface, or advertise activities, services, goods, or products available within the building, and which collectively cover no more than twenty (20) percent of the window glass surface area. (n) Hanging, Projecting, or Canopy Signs:  One (1) each business or professional identification sign mounted to extend either vertically below a ceiling, marquee or canopy or mounted to extend perpendicular to a wall or building, provided its area does not exceed six (6) square feet, nor exceed the width of the marquee or canopy, nor provide less than nine (9) feet of clearance above the sidewalk or pedestrian thoroughfare. A projecting sign shall protrude from the wall a distance no greater than three (3) feet. 33-5 SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS  Unless otherwise specified herein, the Schedule in Section 33-11 contains requirements for signs permitted in each use district. (a) Property Owners Association:   173 Signs conveying information regarding association activities and/or the use of common areas and other amenities of an incorporated Property Owners Association may be permitted subject to approval of the Planning Commission. Such signs shall be of a material and design approved by the Planning Commission and shall not exceed thirty-five (35) square feet in area nor be greater than six (6) feet in height with changeable copy on no more than two (2) faces. Signs so permitted may be placed at a maximum of four (4) locations only within the subdivision on common property owned by the Property Owners Association. (b) Name Indication Signs:  Signs indicating the name of any fixed dwelling or mobile home subdivision; mobile home park; apartment, townhouse, condominium or planned unit development; office park, shopping center, industrial park or other residential or business complex permitted in any district; and signs for any use permitted by Right, with Planning Commission Approval, or Special Exception in any residential district, as indicated in Article XXXV, are allowed. See Section 33-11 for Permitted Sign Requirements. Any fixed dwelling or mobile home subdivision or mobile home park may have no more than two (2) name indication signs at each entrance. (1) Seasonal Signage:  For seasonal businesses open for four (4) months of the year or less, temporary signage may be allowed in-lieu of permanent signage. Temporary signage must be permitted and approved by the Building Official, or his designee. (c) Wall-Mounted Signs:  Each establishment in a shopping center and each business premises in B-1, Local Business, B-2, General Business, B-3, Professional, and M/I, Manufacturing/Industrial, districts may acquire a permit for a wall-mounted sign(s) of a total surface area not to exceed the lesser of three hundred (300) square feet or twenty (20) percent of the surface frontal area of its building or portion of building. The surface area of the side(s) of the building shall not be considered. A sign(s) may be mounted on the side of the building if a main entrance is located on the side. Signs mounted on mansards, marquees, and awnings are deemed to be wall signs. (d) Menu Type Signs:  Two (2) menu type signs per drive-thru lane not to exceed sixty-four (64) square feet for the combined area of both signs, and a maximum of eight (8) feet in height. (e) Yard Type Signs:  Two (2) yard type signs shall be allowed per parcel per street frontage, or one (1) per street frontage for each establishment in a shopping center. Such signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area and shall be permitted for no more than thirty (30)   174 days. Permits for yard signs may be issued twice within a six (6) month period. (f) Automobile Dealerships:  Automobile dealerships in the sale of new vehicles shall be subject to the following:   (1) Numerical Limitation:  In addition to the allowed one (1) sign per street frontage, one (1) secondary ground sign per street frontage shall be permitted only if two (2) or more automotive product lines (automotive makers) are offered for sale on the premises. (2) Area Limitation:  The maximum area of the face for a secondary ground sign shall not exceed twenty-four (24) square feet and the maximum height shall not exceed ten (10) feet above ground level. (g) Gasoline and Fuel Signs:  Motor vehicle fuel pricing signs, in addition to permitted name or identification signs, are allowed in any business district or manufacturing/industrial district. . Motor vehicle fuel pricing signs shall not be counted toward the signage area for the property, provided that no more than one such sign, up to twenty (20) square feet in area, shall be allowed per street frontage and must comply with the other sign requirements for the district in which they are located. Motor vehicle fuel pricing signs, up to ten (10) square feet, may be allowed on the side of the canopy that covers the fuel pumps. (h) New Construction Signs:  (1) General Provision:  A temporary non-illuminated sign will be permitted for the development of each individual business premises, shopping center premises, manufacturing/industrial business, subdivision, planned unit development, or other development that obtains site plan approval by the Planning Commission. One (1) such sign may be erected in connection with new construction work and displayed on the premises during such time as the actual construction work is in progress. One (1) sign shall be allowed for each street frontage. Each sign shall not exceed ten (10) feet in total height and no more than thirty-two (32) square feet in area. Such signs shall be removed upon completion of the project. (2) Temporary Sign:   A temporary sign for new construction will be permitted on each premises for a new business or a business starting in a new location where the premises   175 is without a permitted permanent sign for a period of not more than sixty (60) days or until mounting of a permanently permitted sign, whichever occurs first, provided the temporary sign does not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet, is non-illuminated, and is mounted from the ground to a height not to exceed ten (10) feet. Said sign may be single or double faced. The temporary sign will be removed when a permanent permitted sign is erected. (i) Conventions and Grand Openings:  Temporary signs and banners not exceeding fifty (50) square feet in total area and temporary decorative flags, bunting, pennants and streamers for recognizing conventions and grand openings may be allowed upon approval by the Building Official, or his designee. Said temporary decorations and signs shall be kept in good condition and shall be permitted for no more than thirty (30) days. (j) Temporary Promotional Banner:  One temporary promotional banner no greater than thirty (30) square feet may be attached to and parallel to the face of the building wall for a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days. (See Article VIII, Section 8-2, as defined in Definition of Terms, Temporary Use). Any other manner of banner attachment shall be approved by the Building Official, or his designee. Permits for banners may be issued twice within a six (6) month period. (k) Electronic Signs:  (1) General Prohibition:  Electronic signs are prohibited within the corporate limits with the following exception(s):  Public entities, limited to the Saraland Civic Center, Recreation, Municipal Buildings, and Library Complex and Schools of the Saraland Public School System shall be allowed to maintain electronic signs on the premises of such entities for the sole purpose of providing (1) Information regarding onsite activities or (2) community information of general public interest (i.e. : City Council meetings, Public Service Announcements). (a) Commercial Advertising Prohibition:  In no case, however, is commercial advertising permissible within the electronic display area of any electronic sign or on or around the supporting structure of a sign belonging to a public entity (e.g. the Saraland Civic Center, Recreation, and Library Complex and Schools of the Saraland Public School System). (l) Reader Board Signs:  The reader board portion of any sign, excluding marquees, menu signs, and wall signs, shall not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the total overall signage area. 176  (m) Interstate Corridor Signs:  One “Name Indication” sign shall be allowed for any premise zoned business or manufacturing that is either located within 2500 feet from the intersection of Interstate 65 with Hwy 158 or located within 2500 feet from the intersection of Interstate 65 with Celeste Road. Distance shall be measured in a linear fashion from the I-65 intersection to the property line. The premise must have a minimum of 200 feet of road frontage or a minimum building size of 15,000 square feet. The sign shall contain no more than four hundred and eighty (480) square feet of signage and shall be no greater than one hundred and twenty-five (125) feet in height. (n) Off-premise Signs:  (1) General:  Off-premise signs, as defined in this Ordinance, shall not be permitted except as described below. Off-premise signs, other than those allowed under Section 33-5 (o), shall only be allowed for directional purposes and shall only be allowed to display the name of the facility, distance to the facility, and an arrow pointing in the direction of the facility. No advertising shall be allowed on off-premise signs. Any proposed sign to be erected on private property shall have the written approval of the property owner. Any parcel shall contain no more than one (1) off-premise sign. Any entity utilizing an off premise sign shall deduct the signage area of the off-premise sign from the allowable signage area of their on-premise sign. Sign height for any off-premise sign shall not exceed four (4) feet. (2) Commercial/Retail Signs:  Inasmuch as commercial developments continue to arise within the city limits which contain private interior streets and/or drives across private property with retail and/or business space being located on said private interior streets/property, an advertising sign shall be allowed to be placed at one end of the private interior street. For a Commercial Complex that shares a street name and address number, but has one or more suites with no roadway frontage, a shopping center type sign shall be required. Said signs shall be in accordance with the schedule of permitted signage requirements. (o) Billboards:  New billboards shall only be allowed on parcels immediately adjacent to the I-65   177 right-of-way. New Billboards located along I-65 shall be electronic. For each new electronic billboard or billboard structure erected, four (4) existing billboard structures within the city shall be completely removed. All holes and/or voids resulting from the removal of the billboard structure, foundation, etc. shall be backfilled to be level with the adjacent ground surface. Billboards shall be located a distance of 600 feet from any residential zoning district; 200 feet from any freestanding general business sign; 1,000 feet from an intersection; and 1,500 feet from a park, playground, or school. Also, there must be at least 1000 feet between sign structures located on the same side of the highway. Existing billboards may remain in place as nonconforming if they are in compliance with Section 33-7 (a). (1) Electronic Requirements:  Electronic billboard signage area allowed shall be a maximum of six hundred seventy-two (672) square feet. Maximum height shall be fifty (50) feet. Digital billboard construction is allowed, as a monopole design with underground utility service, provided the following requirements are met. (a) The sign does not display any illumination by flashing; intermittent or moving lights; does not contain or display animated, moving, projecting, video or scrolling elements;  (b) Each message shall be displayed for at least eight seconds and a change of message shall be accomplished within two seconds or less;  (c) A change of message must occur simultaneously on the entire sign;  (d) A sign face is only visible from one direction of traffic;  (e) It will automatically adjust the intensity of its display brightness according to natural ambient light conditions;  (f) It contains a default design mechanism that freezes the sign in one position if a malfunction occurs;  (g) The sign owner shall provide contact information for a person who is available to adjust the intensity of the sign should a malfunction occur. (2) Billboard Permitting:  (a) Permit applications shall be submitted to the Building Official, or his designee. If the applicant satisfies the requirements of this Section, the Building Official, or his designee, will issue a provisional permit granting permission for the digital sign, subject to the issuing of a permit by the Alabama Department of Transportation. (b) The applicant shall obtain a permit from the Alabama Department of   178 Transportation allowing the requested construction and shall provide a copy of that permit to the Building Official, or his designee, no later than 12 months following the issuance of the provisional permit. (c) If the applicant satisfies the requirements of The Saraland Land Use and Development Ordinance and obtains a permit from the Alabama Department of Transportation, the Building Official, or his designee, shall issue a sign permit for the billboard. (d) The provisional permit shall expire 12 months after its issuance if no sign permit has been issued in that time. (e) All billboards shall obtain annual electrical and structural inspections. A copy of these inspections, along with the annual fee, shall be submitted to the Building Official, or his designee, due on December 31st. (p) Residentially Zoned Areas:  Commercial uses permitted by right in a residentially zoned area, not including home occupations, may follow the requirements in Section 33-11 for zoning district B2, General Business. (q) Public Interest Directional Signs:  A permanent or temporary sign, erected on private or public property, to denote the route to any public building or facility, public meeting, or public event when authorized by the City Council. 33-6 SIGNS PROHIBITED IN ALL DISTRICTS  The following signs are prohibited in all districts:  (a) Prohibited Placement:  Signs shall not be erected or painted upon any sloped roof, fence, tree, stand pipe, fire escape, or utility pole, except the manufacturer's or installer's ID plate. (b) Prohibited Wording:  Any sign which uses the word "Stop" or "Danger" prominently displayed and/or which is a copy or imitation of official traffic control signs. (c) Flashing Signs Prohibited:  (1) General Prohibition:  Signs which contain intermittent illuminations are prohibited. 179  (2) Exceptions:  This subsection does not prohibit the following:  (a) Signs required for traffic control. (b) Signs which exhibit only time, date, temperature, weather, and/or emergency news. Commercial advertising is prohibited. (c) Signs as allowed per Section 33-5(k) and billboards per Section 33- 5(o). (d) Prohibited Sign Types:  Portable signs, feather flags, streamers, bench signs, snipe signs, and sandwich signs, except as allowed in Section 33-4, Subsection (d) and (e) and in Section 33-5, Subsection (i). (e) Prohibited Sign Effects:  Signs which produce sound or noise; cause interference with radio, telephone, television or other communication transmission; produce or reflect motion pictures; emit visible smoke, vapor, particles, or odor; are animated; or produce any rotation, motion, or movement. Spinning signs shall not be allowed except for permitted traditional barber poles. (f) Billboards and Off-Premises Signs:  Billboards and off-premise signs as defined in this Ordinance with the exception of those permitted pursuant to Sections 33-5 (n) and 33-5 (o). (g) Vehicle Advertisement:  Any sign attached to or painted on a vehicle parked adjacent to or on a public right- of-way, thoroughfare, or public parking lot for the principal purpose of advertising is prohibited. Any sign attached to a vehicle or trailer that is used in the normal day to day operation of the advertised business is allowed. The primary use of any vehicle or trailer, which contains a vehicle sign, must be to serve a useful function in the transportation or conveyance of persons or commodities from one place to another, including transportation to and from work. (h) Illuminated Tubing:  (1) General Prohibition:  Illuminated tubing or strings of lights that outline property lines, sales area, roof lines, doors, windows, wall edges, similar areas or other architectural features of a building. 180 (2) Exception:  This prohibition shall not apply to temporary displays erected in connection with holiday decorations. (3) Grandfather Clause:  Any illuminated tubing located within the corporate limits prior to the enactment of this Ordinance is hereby grandfathered, provided however, that a permit for which no charge will be made is obtained for the illuminated tubing prior to the date upon which the next City of Saraland business license is due. Upon obtaining such permit, the business shall be granted “legal nonconforming” status as described in Section 33-7, Subsection (a), and shall be subject to the restrictions and provisions for loss of legal nonconforming status as set forth in Section 33-7, Subsection (b). 33-7 NONCONFORMING SIGNS  Any sign in existence on the date of adoption of this Ordinance that is not in conformance shall be considered a legal nonconforming sign and shall be permitted to continue to exist subject to the following conditions. The prohibited signs set forth in Section 33-6 which are in existence prior to the adoption of this ordinance shall also be considered legal nonconforming signs and shall be permitted to continue to exist subject to the following conditions:   (a) Grandfather Clause; Legal Nonconforming Signs:  (1) Existing Off-Premises Signs and Billboards:  At such time as any existing off-premise sign or billboard is removed or destroyed, no new off-premise signs or billboards will be allowed except as set forth in Sections 33-5(n) and (o). Any replacement sign or billboard shall be in conformance with the provisions of this Ordinance. A permit shall not be issued for any on-premise sign for any premise on which there exists a nonconforming off-premise sign or billboard until the off-premise sign or billboard is either permanently removed or becomes conforming in accordance with this Ordinance. Any addition of illuminations, LEDs, or solar power lights to a non- conforming sign is prohibited. (2) Legal Nonconforming On-Premise Sign Status:  Any on-premise sign located within the corporate limits prior to the enactment of the Land Use and Development Ordinance in January of 2008, or located on property prior to its annexation, which does not conform to the provisions as set forth by this ordinance, is eligible for characterization as a "legal nonconforming" sign and is allowed, provided there is only one (1) ground-mounted, on-premise sign, and all other signage is in conformance with these regulations   181  (b) Loss of Legal Nonconforming Status:  An on-premise legal nonconforming sign shall immediately lose its legal nonconforming status and must come into conformance upon the following:  (1) Amortization Schedule:  Legally nonconforming on-premise signs shall be either removed or replaced with a conforming sign by January 1, 2014, or a date seven (7) years from the date in which the property is annexed into the corporate limits. All holes and/or voids resulting from the removal of the billboard structure, foundation, etc. shall be backfilled to be level with the adjacent ground surface. It is intended that this provision shall ensure that those who hold legally nonconforming status will recoup initial investment costs and remaining useful life of such signs. It is further intended that this provision shall not deprive any owners of property rights without just compensation so as to avoid the occurrence of a taking. It is envisioned that the time period allotted herein shall allow for amortization and depreciation of such signs based upon the following factors:  Initial investment costs, remaining useful life, length of time of ownership of the premises, the sign thereon, maintenance expenditures, cost of removal, and replacement. Any nonprofit entity protected by Amendment 622 of the Alabama Constitution is exempted from the provisions of Section 33-7(b)(1). (2) Structural Alteration, Abandonment, Discontinuation, Relocation or Replacement:  If such sign is, after the date of adoption of this ordinance, structurally altered, abandoned, discontinued, relocated or replaced, including the result of an act of God. (c) Additional Permits Prohibited:  No permits for additional signs shall be issued for any premises on which there are nonconforming signs. (d) Building Permit Provision:  Wherever a building permit is required for any kind of improvement to a building, structure or land attached to which or on which there exists any nonconforming sign(s), then all signs attached to the building or structure or on the land, shall be replaced with a sign or signs that conform to the requirements of this Ordinance. (e) Destruction/Structural Deterioration:   182  If any sign is destroyed by any means or becomes fifty percent (50%) or more structurally deteriorated as determined by the Building Official, or his designee, then the sign shall be removed. Any replacement sign, if allowed, shall conform to the requirements of this Ordinance. (f) Mandatory Compliance:  Any nonconforming sign which is neither grandfathered nor permitted as a “legally nonconforming sign” according to Subsection (a) of this Section and which is  prohibited under Section 33-6 of this Ordinance shall be removed or made to conform to this Ordinance within ninety (90) days of the date of adoption of this Ordinance. (g) Variance:  The Board of Zoning Adjustment may, in extraordinary cases and for good reason, and where owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, permit the erection of a sign not in conformance with the requirements of this Article. The Board, at its discretion, may require the posting of a bond in sufficient amount to protect the City of Saraland against all liabilities that may result from the erection and use of such sign. 33-8 PERMITTING  (a) Applicability:  No person shall erect, alter, relocate, repair, replace the face of, or change a sign (except for billboards, which are governed by Section 33-5(o)(2)) in any way without first obtaining a permit, except for the following actions which shall not require a permit:  (1) Cleaning, painting, or comparable maintenance of a sign that does not alter the size, image or message of the sign;  (2) Erecting a sign for which a permit is not required in accordance with Section 33-4 of this ordinance. (b) Procedure:  All sign permits shall be issued in accordance with the following procedure:  (1) An application, signed by the property owner or owner’s representative, shall be submitted to the Building Official, or his designee, for review and processing. The application shall include supplementary information as may be specifically requested by the Building Official, or his designee, to determine compliance with these regulations. (2) The Building Official, or his designee, shall review the application, plans,   183 and specifications to determine whether the proposed sign conforms to all applicable requirements. (3) Following review and determination as to conformance with these regulations, the Building Official, or his designee, shall either approve or deny the application for the sign permit. Upon approval, the permit fee shall be paid before the permit may be issued. (4) An application may be amended within 30 days of the application date to include additional signage not to exceed the allowable maximum. Additional fees shall be charged for additional signage added. After 30 days, a new sign permit shall be required and all fees shall be reassessed based on the revised application. (5) Electrical Permit Requirement:  All signs which are electrically illuminated shall require a separate electrical permit and inspection. (c) Submission requirements:  No request for a sign permit shall be considered complete until all the following has been submitted to the Building Official, or his designee. (1) The application form shall be submitted with all required information completed by the applicant. The application form is available from the Building Official, or his designee. (2) Plans for the proposed sign shall be professionally designed and shall provide a graphic illustration or photograph. Drawings shall be submitted, drawn to scale, and include the following:  (a) Site plan showing the location of any easements, public rights-of- way, utilities, property lines, buildings, freestanding sign(s) and other signs existing on the property or proposed on the property;  (b) A listing of the number, type, location, and display area of all existing signs on the same property and/or building on which the sign is to be located. (c) Main entrance and/or front facade including linear dimension;  (d) Dimensions, elevations, and messages of all signs on order to show compliance with the sign ordinance;  (e) Dimensions of any supporting structures, including engineered structural drawings;  (f) Maximum and minimum height of proposed sign, as measured from finished grade;   184  (g) For illuminated signs, indicate type and placement of illumination;  (3) The applicant shall be required to pay a permit fee according to the current schedule of fees. (4) A sign permit shall be valid for a period of 6 months from the date of issuance of the permit. Failure to completely construct and erect the sign within the permitted time period shall void the permit and necessitate reapplication. If construction of the sign is not in conformity with the ordinances of the City and with the submitted sign plans as determined by the Building Official, or his designee, the sign permit shall become void. 33-9 CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND REMOVAL OF SIGNS  (a) General Construction Requirements:  (1) Minimum Height Requirements:  No portion of any outdoor advertising sign shall be less than nine (9) feet above the level of a sidewalk or other pedestrian thoroughfare, nor shall be less than fifteen (15) feet above the level of a public driveway, alley or street. (2) Aesthetic Standard:  Signs other than traffic signs shall be harmonious with the environment and with the nature of our special local characteristics of site, aesthetic tradition, and development potential. Plans for the proposed sign shall be professionally designed by a graphic designer and shall provide a graphic illustration or photograph. (b) General Maintenance Requirement:  All signs shall be maintained in good condition and appearance. The Building Official, or his designee, after due notice in writing to the owner, may remove, at the owner's expense, any sign which shows neglect, which appears abandoned, dilapidated, or which has an area of a distance of ten (10) feet around such sign that is not kept free of weeds, rubbish, debris, or uncut grass, and maintained in compliance with City standards. (c) Vacation of Premises:  Any sign associated with premises that have been vacated shall be either removed from the premises by the owner or lessee within three (3) months of the time of vacation, or said sign shall be altered or resurfaced by the owner or lessee within the same time period so that it does not display letters, numerals, symbols, figures, designs, or any other device for visual communication that would pertain to the activity formerly associated with the vacated premises. Signs shall not remain void of face plates. If face plates are removed, the property owner shall ensure that solid   185 color blank face plates shall be immediately installed as temporary replacements until a new owner/lessee occupies the signage area. (d) Public Right-of-Way:  The Building Official, or his designee, may remove or cause to be removed any sign erected or maintained on any public right-of-way within the City corporate limits, or which is in violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance. (e) Penalty for Violation:  The erection or maintenance of any sign in violation of this Ordinance is a misdemeanor and shall be subject to the penalties set forth in Article II, Section 2-8, entitled Penalties and Remedies. Notices and citations may be mailed to violators of this Ordinance. A double fee shall be charged as a penalty for any sign installed prior to the issuance of a sign permit by the City. 33-10 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY  When the owner of real property allows it to be used by the public for the purpose of vehicular traffic and/or as a public or quasi-public parking lot for the use of customers, tenants or employees of said property, the owner shall erect and maintain all traffic control signs and other devices in accordance with the Alabama Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, and any revisions thereof. In addition, the owner shall meet the requirements of Section 32-5-31(a) of the Code of Alabama, 1975, (as amended), with respect to local authorities in their respective jurisdictions. 186 33-11   SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED SIGN REQUIREMENTS                                      Zoning Type Max Area No. of Faces Max. Max No. Of District of Use   per Face per Sign Height * Signs Permitted  R-(1,2,3,4,5) Residential 6 sq ft 1 6 ft 1 per premises  B-1 Local 50 sq ft 2 10ft 1 per street frontage Business      B-2 General 50 sq ft 2 10 ft 1 per street Business  frontage; 2 if the   premises frontage is   greater than one thousand   (1,000) linear ft.  B-2 General 50 2 12 ft One (1) per street Business  frontage for Centers (Shopping Center)**  with less than 10,000 SF   of gross building area. 100 2 12 ft One (1) per street   frontage for Centers   with 10,000 SF to   20,000 SF of gross   building area. 200 2 21 ft One (1) per street   frontage for Centers   with 20,000 SF to   65,000 SF of gross   building area. 250 2 30 ft One (1) per street   frontage for Centers   with 65,000 SF to   250,000 SF of gross   building area. For Shopping Centers with greater than 250,000 of gross building area, signs must be approved by the Building Official, or his designee. B-3 Professional 30 sq ft 2 10 ft One (1) per street Business  frontage  M-(1,2) Manufacturing/ 50 sq ft 2 10 ft One (1) per street  Industrial frontage  *Maximum Height may be considered to be the sign height beginning at the elevation of the edge of the adjacent roadway. ** Maximum sign width shall be 15 feet. 187 33-12 FEES  Fees for each permitted sign under Sections 33-5 and 33-11 shall be as specifically enumerated in Article XXXIV, entitled the Schedule of Fees. 188     SECTION N SCHEDULE OF FEES   189 ARTICLE XXXIV  THE SCHEDULE OF FEES 34-1 FEES  The schedule of fees assessed by the Planning Department with regard to the administration of the Land Use and Development Ordinance:  DESCRIPTION: FEE:  PLANNING COMMISSION:  Site Plan $200.00  Preliminary and Preliminary /Final Plat $150.00 File Per Lot     $10.00   Amendments       $50.00  Final Plat $150.00 File Per Lot      $10.00  Request to Rezone     $300.00 Advertisement fee     cost per letter  Easement and/or Right of Way    $100.00 Advertisement fee     cost per letter  Mobile Home Park License  $150.00 License transfer   $50.00  Site Disturbance Permit $20.00 Administrative Review (Fee based on site cost, excluding cost per application, $5.00 per construction of building) each thousand or a fraction                              thereof  Annexation No fee  PUD $200.00  BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT:   Administrative Review    $150.00  Special Exception     $150.00  Variance        $150.00  Advertisement fee     cost per letter  Home Occupation Review $75.00 (Ord. 1062, 11-10-16)  SIGN PROVISIONS:  Note: A double fee shall be charged for any sign installed prior to the issuance of a permit. Sign Permit $1.00 per square foot ($25.00 Min.) Yard Signs $1.00 each Billboard Annual Fee  $200.00 Temporary Banner  $10.00    190     SECTION O TABLE OF PERMITTED USES   191 ARTICLE XXXV  TABLE OF PERMITTED USES (DEFINED)  TABLE OF PERMITTED USES: The following Table contains a list of land uses permitted in each district. Opposite each land use, in the appropriate district column or columns, the letter “R” identifies those districts in which a particular land use is permitted by right, subject only to Planning Commission site plan approval, and the letter “S” identifies those districts in which a particular land use is permitted only by Special Exception granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment, and thereafter with site plan approval by the Planning Commission. The letter “P” identifies those uses that must be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission as to location and site plan with regard to transportation, access, water supply, waste disposal, fire, police protection, and other public facilities. Review by either Board of Zoning Adjustment or the Planning Commission shall also include a determination by the Board or Commission that the use is compliant with the current City Comprehensive Plan. If no designation is listed for a use under a specific zoning district, the use is not allowed in that zoning district. The letter “A” identifies those uses that require Administrative Review pursuant to regulations stated in Article 31-1 of this ordinance. (Ord. 1063, 11-10-16)  USES NOT SPECIFIED: In any case where a use is not specifically referred to by the Table or elsewhere in this Ordinance, its status shall be determined by the Building Inspector by reference to the most clearly analogous use or uses that are specifically referred to in the Table of Permitted Uses. When the status of a use has been so determined by the Building Inspector, such determination shall thereafter have general application to all uses of the same type. 192 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH     Accessory buildings and uses, when    located on the same lot or parcel as the    principal structure or use and    customarily incidental thereto, provided    the requirements in all pertinent sections    of this Ordinance are met R R R R R R R R R R R     Agriculture and related plant farming    operations, including horticulture, plant    nurseries market gardening, field crops,    orchards, and home gardens P P P P P P P P R R R     Air Conditioning sales and service  R R R     Ambulance/EMS service  R R P R     Amusement and recreation services:  S  must be so arranged that noise,    vibration, lights, and all other possible    disturbing aspects are enclosed,    screened or otherwise controlled so that    operation of the establishment will not    unduly interfere with the use and    enjoyment of properties in the    surrounding area:       Amusement Park  S P     Amusement arcade, kiddie land  S P     Archery range  R      Baseball batting range  R S     Billiard or pool hall  R S     Bowling alley  R P     Fairgrounds, circus or carnival  R S     Golf Course  R R R R     Golf Course, miniature  R R     Golf, driving range P P P P R      Racquetball or tennis courts, indoor S S P R P R     Skating rink  R R   193 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH        Tennis Courts, outdoor; need not be    enclosed within a structure P P P P P P     Theater, indoor  R R R     Theater, outdoor/drive-in; need not be    enclosed within a structure  P      Animal clinic/kennels for small animals;    need not be enclosed within a structure  P P     Antique store, including repairing,    restoration and refinishing (Ord. 1021, 12- 17-15)  R R R     Apparel and accessory store  R R S     Appliance store  R R S     Armory  R R P     Art sculptures, statues, monuments S S S S S P P P P P     Art supplies  R R      Auditoriums, stadiums, coliseums, and    other such places of public assembly  P P P     Automobile Air Conditioning Sales and    Service  P P P     Automobile Glass and Upholstery    Installation  P P P     Automobile laundry, where the primary    function is washing automobiles, but not    including trucks or trailers; operations    shall be conducted only within a    completely enclosed structure, and all    wastes shall be discharged directly into    the sewer  P P P     Automobile parts sales, except used parts  R R R R     Automobile wrecking and salvage; need    not be enclosed within a structure, but    must be enclosed with a solid fence    sufficiently high to obstruct noise and     194 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH     view; chain link or similar open fence    may be permitted if a screen planting    adequate to obstruct view is provided   P P     Automobile, travel trailer, camper, farm    equipment and implements and mobile    home sales (new and used); need not be    enclosed within a structure, but any    mechanical or body repair must be done    entirely within a structure which shall    not have any opening, other than a    stationary window, within 100 feet of a    residential district  P S P     Automobile and truck laundry,    including steam cleaning   P P     Automobile and truck repair garage,    mechanical and body; must be    conducted in a structure which shall not    have any openings other than a    stationary, within 100 feet of a    residential district and which shall not    store or otherwise maintain any parts or    waste materials outside such structures  P P P     Automobile and truck sales and service;    but not including commercial wrecking,    dismantling, or auto salvage yard; need    not be enclosed within a structure    provided the unenclosed part shall    comply with the requirements for    maintenance of off-street parking    facilities  P P     Automobile and truck service station    including minor repair, subject to the    requirements listed under Special    Provisions, where the primary function    is retail sale of gasoline, oil, grease,    tires, batteries and accessories and    where services are limited to installation    of the items sold, washing, polishing,    tire changing, greasing and minor    repairs, but not including commercial    wrecking, dismantling or auto salvage    yard, major mechanical overhauling or    body work; fuel pumps need not be    enclosed within a structure  P P P P   195 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH     Bakery, retail  R R      Bakery, wholesale  R R     Bank, including drive-in bank  R R R R     Barber shop or beauty parlor  R R      Barber and beauty supplies and    equipment sales  R R     Bicycle, lawnmower sales, service and    repair  P P P     Boat construction, storage, service and    repair, wet and dry, major; need not be    enclosed within a structure  P P P S     Boat docking only of pleasure boats as    an accessory use to a permitted    principal use; maximum of three (3)    slips per unit. Boat service is prohibited S R R R R R R R R R R     Boat dry storage; pleasure boats having    lengths not greater than 31 feet  P P P P R     Boat sales, accessories and service  P P     Boat storage, service and repair, minor;    a marina for docking pleasure boats and    providing services thereto and to the    occupants thereof, including minor    servicing and minor repair to boats    while in the water, sale of fuel and    supplies, and provision of lodging, food,    beverages and entertainment as    accessory uses, may include dry storage    in an enclosed structure  P P P P S     Body-Piercing Studio  P      Book store  R R      Bottling works  P P     Building materials supply, provided    that major storage areas are screened    from view and that any machine    operations are conducted entirely     196 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH     within an enclosed structure with no    opening other than a stationary window    within 100 feet of a residential district  R P P     Bus and railroad terminal facilities  S S S     Business machines sales and service  P P P     Business school or college  P P P     Butane and other liquefied petroleum    gas products storage and sales; need not    be enclosed within a structure  S S     Cabinet or carpenter shop  P P     Café, grill, lunch counter and    restaurant but not including night club,    bar, tavern and drive-in restaurant  R R R R     Camera and photographic supply store  R R      Candy, nut and confectionary store  R R      Canvas products manufacture  P P P     Carting express, crating, hauling    storage   P P     Catering shop or service  R R      Cemetery, subject to requirements of    the Special Provisions S S S S S S S S S     Churches and related accessory    buildings S S S S S P P P P P     City Hall, police station, fire station,    courthouse, federal office building and    similar public building R R R R R R R R R R     Clay and clay products manufacture;    need not be enclosed within a structure   P P     Clinic, dental, medical or psychiatric    for humans P R P     Club or lodge, fraternal, civic    charitable or similar organization,     197 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH     public or private, but not including any    such club, lodge or organization, the    chief activity of which is a service or    product customarily carried on as a    business  R R P     Club, country club, golf, swimming or    tennis club or the like, privately owned    and operated community club or    association, athletic field, park,    recreation area, and similar uses of a    recreational nature provided that no    building for such purposes is located    within 100 feet of any property line P P P P P P P P P P P     College or university, provided that    they are located on a lot fronting on an    arterial street or road and that no    building is located within 100 feet of any    property line S S S S S P P P P     College sorority or fraternity house S S S S P P P     Communications Towers  S P     Concrete and concrete products    manufacture; need not be enclosed    within a structure   P P     Contractor's storage yard for vehicles,    equipment, materials and supplies; need    not be enclosed within a structure, but    must be enclosed within a solid fence to    screen view; chain link or similar open    fence may be permitted if a screen    planting adequate to obstruct the view    is provided  P P P     Convenience Store  P R R R     Correctional, detention or penal    institution  P P     Dairy equipment sales  R R     Dairy products sales  R R      Delicatessen  R R P P      198 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH     Department store  R P     Dog pound; need not be enclosed    within a structure  P P     Drive-in restaurant  S P P     Drug Store  R R      Dry cleaning shop, including self-service  R R      Dry goods or fabric store  R R      Dwelling, one-family R R R R S P P P P     Dwelling, two-family R R S P P P P     Dwelling, multi-family P P S P P P P     Electric power generating plant  S S     Electric power substation; need not be    enclosed within a structure, but must be    secured by a chain link or similar fence,    or raised above ground so as to be    inaccessible to unauthorized persons;    requires visual screen in most districts P P P P P P P P P     Electric repair shop  R R     Electric Supply Store  R P     Elevator maintenance service  P P     Employee credit union office  R R R     Exterminator service office  P P P     Farm and garden equipment and supply    store  P P P     Farmers' markets  P P P     Fix-it shop, including small appliance    repair  P P P     Floor covering sales and service  R R P     Floral shop  R R    199 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH     Food locker plant including rental of    lockers for the storage of food; cutting    and packaging of meats and game, but    not the slaughtering of animals or fowl. R P     Food products processing plant   P     Food products, wholesale storage and    sales  P P     Freight; depot, railway or truck  P P P     Fruit and produce, retail  R R      Fund Raising S S S S S P P      Funeral home, mortuary or undertaking    establishment  R R      Furniture and home furnishing store,    including office furniture and    equipment  R P     Furniture repair, including upholstering    and refinishing  R P     Gas regulator station P P P P P P P P P     Gift shop  R R      Grocery store, retail  R R      Gymnasium, commercial  R R      Hardware store, retail, wholesale,    storage and sales  R R P     Hatchery, poultry, or fish   P P     Hazardous materials storage: see Definition, section 8-2, (Ord. 906, 2-14-13; 989 11-13-14)      S P P     Heating and plumbing equipment,    supplies and service  P P P     Hobby shop and supply store  R R P     http://library.municode.com/HTML/11265/level2/CICO_CH64ZO.html#CICO_CH64ZO_S64-2DE  200 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH     Home occupation (Ord. 1029, 01-28-16; 1063, 11-10-16) A A A A A R R R     Hospital, clinic, convalescent or nursing    home, extended care facility or    sanitarium for humans S S S S P P P P     Hotel and motel  P P P     Ice Cream parlor  R R      Ice Plant  P P     Industrial park   P P     Institution for children or the aged, day    care P P P P P P      Interior decorating shop  R R      Junk yard including storage, baling or    sale of rags, paper, iron or junk; need    not be enclosed within a structure but    must be enclosed within a fence or    sufficient height to obstruct view and    noise; chain link or similar fence may be    permitted if screen planting is provided. P     Kindergarten, play school or day care    center, public or private, provided that    all activities are carried on in an    enclosed building or fenced yard and    that all applicable federal, state and    local requirements are met. P P P P R R P     Laboratory, scientific  P P P     Laboratory, medical or dental  R R R P     Landscape garden sales; need not be    enclosed within a structure  P P P     Laundry, self-service P R R      Laundry and dry-cleaning plant  S P     Laundry, linen supply or diaper service  P P     Leather goods or luggage goods store  R R    201 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH        Library S S S S S R R R     Liquor, wine and beer sales not to be    consumed on premises and meeting local    and state requirements  R R R     Local Shopping Centers  P P P     Loan office meeting all other state and  S S  local requirments    Locksmith  R R      Lodging, boarding or rooming houses,    and tourist homes P P P      Lumber yards and building materials;    need not be enclosed within a structure  P P     Machine Shop  P P         Machinery, tools and construction    equipment, sales and service  P P     Mail order house  P P     Manufacturing, repair, assembly or    processing establishments of a light    industrial nature, including, but not    limited to the following:       Automobile assembly   P Clothing and garment manufacturing   P P Food product processing and packaging   P P Glass products manufacturing   P  Laboratories for testing materials,    chemical analysis, photographic    processing. P P Metal products manufacturing   P P Millwork and similar wood products    manufacturing   P P Musical instruments and parts    manufacturing   P P Paper products manufacturing   P P Plastics manufacturing   P P Scientific, optical and electronic    equipment assembly and    manufacturing   P P   202 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH     Shipbuilding and repair yard; need not    be enclosed within a structure   P P Souvenirs and novelties manufacturing   P P Surgical and dental supplies    manufacturing   P P Toy, sporting goods and athletic    goods manufacturing   P P     Marina, minor; see boat storage, service    and repair minor  P P     Marina, major; see boat construction,    storage, service and repair, wet and dry,    major; may also include boat sales,    accessories and service  P P     Marine stores and supplies  R P     Mobile Home Park       Motorcycle sales, service, and repair  R P     Music store  R R      Natural preservation areas including    bird and wildlife sanctuaries, nature    and hiking trails P P P P P P P      News Stand  R R      Night club, bar, tavern and cocktail    lounge when separate from a restaurant  P R P     Non-Chartered Financial Institution  R      Office buildings, general  R P P     Office buildings, professional  R R R P     Office equipment and supplies, retail  R R      Oil and gas exploration and production    activities S S S S S S S S S S     Optician  R R R     Paint and wallpaper store  R R P     Painting and decorating contractor  R P   203 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES AND    CONDITIONS R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 B1 B2 B3 M1 M2 FH        Paper supplies, wholesale  P P     Park or playground including    recreation centers; need not be    enclosed within a structure P P P P P      Pawn Shop  R      Pet Shop  R P     Photographic studio and/or processing  R R     Tattoo Parlor  R      Transit vehicle storage and servicing;    need not be enclosed within a structure  S P     Variety Store  P R      Veterinary service  R R R P     Warehouse and storage facilities,    minor; mini-type do-it-yourself storage    facilities  P P P P     Water storage; need not be enclosed    within a structure S S P P P P P P P     Water or sewage pumping station P P P P P P P P P     Welding shop  P P P     Well drilling company  P P P     YMCA, YWCA and similar institutions S S S S S      Zoo  S S                                 ** Residential use of mobile home(s) other than in mobile home parks is prohibited in all use districts. 204  ** Office space or other non-residential use in mobile home(s) is prohibited in all use districts. 205 ARTICLE XXXVI  LOCATION RESTRICTIONS  36-1 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS  (a) Body-Piercing studios, non-chartered financial institutions, pawn shops and tattoo parlors shall not be located within 500 linear feet of R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-4 or R- 5 zoned areas, school buildings, church buildings and public parks. (b) The minimum distance between similar uses of body-piercing studios, non-chartered financial institutions, pawn shops and tattoo parlors shall be 5,000 linear feet. NORTHPORT ZONING ORDINANCE Adopted: April 2, 2012 Northport, Alabama As amended through: DECEMBER 2020 Acknowledgements NORTHPORT ZONING ORDINANCE CITY COUNCIL Steve Webb, District 1 Jay Logan, District 2 William Tunnell, District 3 Steve Acker, District 4 Bart Harper, District 5 Bobby Herndon, Mayor PLANNING COMMISSION Shawn Blackburn Katie Shaddix Bob Hale Mike Higgins Bruce Higginbotham Rex Veron Emanuel Jenkins Jerry Pruitt Bart Harper ADMINISTRATION Scott Collins, City Administrator Charles Swann, City Engineer Brooke Starnes, Assistant City Engineer Larry Ingram, Director Public Works Ron Davis, City Attorney Katherine E. Ennis, Director Planning & Inspections SPECIAL THANKS TO Brandi Hambright, Administrative Assistant Flora Gay, Zoning Administrator Josh Cameron, Mapping Rex Veron, Graphics  April 2, 2012 i TABLE OF CONTENTS ARTICLE I. TITLE, PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I-1 Section 100. Title. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I-1 Section 101. Legislative Intent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I-1 Section 102. Purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I-2 Section 103. Jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I-3 ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS Section 200. Purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .II-1 Section 201. Word Usage. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II-1 Section 202. Abbreviations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II-2 Section 203. Definitions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II-2 ARTICLE III. ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS Section 300. Purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-1 Section 301. Zoning Districts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III -1 Section 302. Map of Zoning Districts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-2 Section 303. Interpretation of District Boundaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-2 Section 304. Maintenance of Official Copy of Zoning Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-3 Section 305. Statement of Purpose and Intent of Zoning Districts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-4 305.01. Agricultural District (AG) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .III-4 305.02. Residential Single Family Districts (RS). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .III-4 305.03. Residential Multi-Family District (RM) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .III-4 305.04. Commercial Districts (C-2), (C-3), (C-6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .III-5 305.05. Office-Institutional District (O-I) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .III-5 305.06. Manufacturing Districts (M) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .III-5 305.07. Special District (SD) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .III-5 305.08. Flood Protection Areas (FP), (FW) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-5 305.09. Downtown /Riverfront Districts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-6 305.10. Carry Over Zones. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-6 ARTICLE IV. GENERAL REGULATIONS Section 400. Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IV-1 Section 401. Use Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-1 Section 402. Uses Permitted by Right, Uses Permitted with Conditional Use Permits and Uses Not Permitted. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IV-1 Table 4-1. Table of Permitted Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-3 Section 403. Use Categories Defined. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-8 Section 404. Agricultural Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-8 Section 405. Residential Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-9 Section 406. Recreational, Institutional, and Special Residential Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-9 Section 407. Commercial Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IV-9 Section 408. Industrial Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IV-11 Section 409. Special Development Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-12 Table 4-2. Standards for Nonresidential Uses by District . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-25 Table 4-3. Dimensional Standards for Nonresidential Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IV-27 Section 410. Resource Protection Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-27 Section 411. Reclamation of Undeveloped Land. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IV-28 Section 412. Areas Subject to Flooding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-28 Section 413. Lakes and Ponds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-30 Section 414. Drainageways. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-31 Section 415. Open Space. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-31 Section 416. Transportation Impact Report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-34  April 2, 2012 ii Section 417. Clear View of Intersection Streets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IV-36 Section 418. Traffic Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-37 ARTICLE V. LANDSCAPE AND BUFFER REQUIREMENTS Section 500. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-1 Section 501. Purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-1 Section 502. Scope. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .V-2 Section 503. Applicability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-2 Section 504. Definitions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-3 Section 505. Landscape Plan Submittal Requirements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-7 Section 506. General Requirements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .V-8 Section 507. Redevelopment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-10 Section 508. Landscape Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .V-11 Section 509. Special Corridor Landscape & Design Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .V-14 Section 510. Conditional Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .V-17 Section 511. Off-Street Parking and Tree Preservation Credits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .V-17 Section 512. Open Space Requirements for High Density Residential Development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-18 Section 513. Compliance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-18 Section 514. Alternative Compliance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V19 Section 515. Landscaping Requirements for Downtown & Riverfront Areas. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-20 Section 516. Ownership & Maintenance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-21 Section 517. Legal Aspects, Other Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-21 Section 518. Penalty for Violation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-22 Table 5-1 Approved Tree List. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-23 ARTICLE VI. DETAILED USE REGULATIONS Section 600. Purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-1 Section 601. Standards Applicable to Certain Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-1 Section 602. Broadcast/TV/Radio and Telecommunication Tower Use Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-2 Section 603. Residential Use Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-7 Table 6-1 Lot Area, Setbacks, Maximum Impervious Surface and Parking Requirements for Conventional Subdivisions (except in RS Districts) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-8 Table 6-2 Lot Area, Setback, Bulk Regulations and Parking Requirements for Conventional Subdivisions in RS Districts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-9 603.02. Manufactured Housing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-10 603.03. Performance residential Development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-14 Section 604. Master Development Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-21 Section 605. Special District (SD) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-22 Section 606. Mixed-Use Developments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-26 Section 607. Accessory Uses and Structures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-27 Section 608. Detailed Accessory Use Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-28 608.01 . Home Occupations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-28 608.02 . Family Child Care Home. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-31 608.03 . Private Swimming Pools and Tennis Courts Accessory to Residential Use . . . . . . . .VI-32 608.04 . Antennas. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-33 608.05 . Subdivision Amenities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-33 Section 609. Temporary Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-34 Section 610. Off-street Parking General Requirements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-39 610.03. Shared Parking. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-47 610.04. Reduction in Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for Larger Uses . . . . . .VI-48 Section 611. Lighting. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-48 Section 612. Flag Lots. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VI-49  April 2, 2012 iii ARTICLE VII. CORE CITY ZONING & DESIGN STANDARDS Section 700. Background. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-1 Section 701. Districts & Sub-Districts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-1 Figure 7-1  Core City Zoning Districts - Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-2 Section 702. Street Types. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-3 Section 703. Urban Mixed Use Districts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-12 703.01. Site Design Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-12 703.02. South Main Riverfront District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-15 703.03. Historic Downtown Core District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-20 703.04. Residential/Commercial/Institutional District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-25 703.05. Bridge Avenue South District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-29 703.06. Neighborhood Centers District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-34 Section 704. Suburban Mixed Use Districts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-39 704.01. Site Design Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-39 704.02. Bridge Avenue North District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-42 Section 705. Urban Residential Districts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-44 705.01. Site Design Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-44 705.02. New Urban Neighborhood District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-47 705.03. Historic Neighborhood District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-52 705.04. Multi-Family Housing District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-57 Section 706. Institutional District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-61 706.01. Site Design Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-61 706.02. Institutional District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-62 Section 707. Employment Districts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-66 707.01 Site Design Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-66 707.02 Light Industrial District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-68 707.03 Working Riverfront District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-70 Section 708. Ecological Districts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VII-72 708.01 Site Design Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-72 708.02 River’s Edge District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-73 708.03 Conservation District. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-76 ARTICLE VIII. SIGN REGULATIONS Section 800. Purpose and Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VIII -1 Section 801. Definitions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VIII-2 Section 802. Exempt Signs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VIII-6 Section 803. Prohibited Signs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VIII-10 Section 804. Permitted Signs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VIII -12 Section 805. Design, Construction and Maintenance of Signs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VIII-19 Section 806. Permitting and Enforcement/Administration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VIII-21 Section 807. Nonconforming, Illegal and Abandoned Signs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VIII-23 Section 808. Variances and Waivers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VIII-24 Section 809. Severability Clause. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VIII-25 ARTICLE IX. NONCONFORMITIES Section 900. Purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-1 Section 901. Definitions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-1 Section 902. Authority to Continue. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-2 Section 903. Nonconforming Vacant Lots of Record. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-3 Section 904. Nonconforming Developed Lot of Record. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-4 Section 905. Nonconforming Uses of Buildings and Structures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IX-4 Section 906. Construction Prior to Adoption or Amendment of Zoning Ordinance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IX-5 Section 907. Repair and Restoration of Nonconforming Buildings and Structures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .IX-5 Section 908. Changes and Reversions to Nonconforming Uses Prohibited. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-6 Section 909. Termination of Use of Nonconforming Buildings and Structures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-6  April 2, 2012 iv ARTICLE X. DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PROCESS Section 1000. Purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .X-1 Section 1001. Subdivisions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .X-1 Section 1002. Site Plans. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . X-1 Section 1003. Conditional Uses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . X-19 Section 1004. Zoning Certificates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .X-22 Section 1005. Certificate of Occupancy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . X-23 Section 1006. Access. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .X-23 Section 1007. Fees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .X-24 ARTICLE XI. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT Section 1100. Purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1 Section 1101. Planning Director: Duties and Powers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1 Section 1102. Zoning Administrator and/or Planner Duties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-2 Section 1103. Chief Building Inspector: Duties and Powers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-3 Section 1104. Duties of the Planning Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-4 Section 1105. Board of Zoning Adjustment: Duties and Powers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-5 Section 1106. Interpretations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-6 Section 1107. Amendments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-8 1107.01. Standards for Map Amendments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .XI-9 1107.02. Annexation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .XI-10 Section 1108. Variances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-12 Section 1109. Appeal of an Administrative Interpretation or Action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .XI-14 Section 1110. Penalties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .XI-16  April 2, 2012  I-1 ORDINANCE NO. 1779  AN ORDINANCE in pursuance of the authority granted by Title 11, Chapter 52, Articles 1 through 4 inclusive, of the Code of Alabama 1975, As Amended, to provide the establishment of districts within the corporate limits of the City of Northport, Alabama; to regulate within such districts the height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that may be developed, the size of yards and other open spaces, the density and distribution of population and the use of buildings, and structures. Further regulated is the use of land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, airports, water supply, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes, creating districts for said purposes and establishing the boundaries thereof. Provisions are further provided for changes in these regulations, restrictions and boundaries for above mentioned districts. Said Ordinance shall repeal all existing Zoning Ordinances and provide methods for administration of this Ordinance and penalties for the violation thereof. THE PUBLIC WELFARE REQUIRING IT, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Northport, as follows: ARTICLE I. TITLE, PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION. Section 100. Title. This Ordinance shall be known as and may be referred to as the “Northport Zoning Ordinance,” and includes maps of the City that depict the boundaries of zoning districts. Section 101. Legislative Intent. In enacting the Zoning Ordinance, special notice has been taken of the fact that the goals of citizens and landowners of Northport often conflict or compete. In the light of this situation, the first consideration has been to devise technical solutions, which minimize or eliminate conflicts. This Ordinance has been designed to protect and accommodate both competing interests. This has inevitably, and properly, led to some form of compromise. In arriving at these compromises, every possible consideration has been given to the public interest, individual property rights, and externalities. While compromise implies mutual concessions or losses, it also implies – and this Ordinance has been designed to provide – mutual gains and benefits. It is the goal of this Ordinance that both the burdens and the benefits it implies are rationally and fairly distributed among the citizens and property owners of Northport. April 2, 2012  I-2 Every effort has been made to make uses a matter of right subject to performance criteria capable of nondiscretionary, objective administrative evaluations, thus reducing the number of times that rezoning decisions need be made. This greatly increases the potential uses or choices available to individual property owners. The rezoning decisions that conventional zoning ordinances frequently necessitate appear to reduce the certainty of protection to neighbors and to increase the potential for adverse impacts to Northport. This Ordinance contains performance criteria intended to insure that neighbors are protected from adverse impacts. The Ordinance also contains performance criteria to protect the community’s general welfare. Zoning districts are few in number, and each has a clearly different purpose. The districts are sized to be adequate to handle Northport’s long-term needs and must be regularly updated as time passes. Where performance criteria severely limit the use of properties, the Ordinance has gone to considerable extremes to provide the landowners with a range of choices, flexibility, and options for development. Section 102. Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is the promotion of the health, safety, and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of Northport by: A. Providing methods to preserve and maintain a healthful environment for the benefit of present and future generations by providing standards to control the amount of open space and impervious surfaces within a development; to control the intensity of development in areas of sensitive natural resources or natural features in order to reduce or eliminate adverse environmental impacts. B. Controlling and regulating the growth of Northport, concentrating development in areas where adequate sewerage facilities, roads, and schools can be provided, and limiting development in areas where these facilities are not and should not be provided. C. Regulating and restricting the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residences, and other uses. D. Providing standards for all types of dwelling units so that all the people may have access to decent, sound, and sanitary housing in accordance with the goals of the Federal Housing Act of 1949, among which is the provision of adequate zoning to meet a fair share of the region’s housing needs. E. Lessening the danger of congestion of traffic on the roads and highways, limiting excessive numbers of intersections, driveways, and other friction points, minimizing other hazards, and insuring the continued usefulness of all elements of the existing highway system for their planned function. F. Securing safety from fire, panic, flood, and other dangers. G. Providing adequate privacy, light, and air. H. Securing economy in local governmental expenditures. April 2, 2012  I-3 I. Conserving property values throughout Northport. J. Protecting landowners from adverse impacts of adjoining developments. K. Dividing the incorporated area of Northport into districts according to the use of land and buildings, the intensity of such uses (including bulk and height), and surrounding open space. Each purpose listed above serves to balance the interest of the general public of Northport and those of individual property owners. Decisions made through the application of this Ordinance shall be made in conjunction with the Northport Comprehensive Plan. Section 103. Jurisdiction. This Ordinance shall apply to all areas within the corporate limits of the City of Northport, Alabama. April 2, 2012 II-1 ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS Section 200. Purpose. It is the purpose of this Article to define words, terms, and phrases contained within this Ordinance. Section 201. Word Usage. In the interpretation of this Ordinance, the provisions and rules of this section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly requires otherwise: A. Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other tenses and derivative forms. B. Words in the singular number shall include the plural number and words in the plural number shall include the singular number. C. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the feminine gender shall include the masculine. D. The word “shall” is mandatory. E. The word “may” is permissive. F. The word “person” includes individuals, firms, corporations, associations, trusts, and any other similar entities. G. The word “Northport” means The City of Northport, Alabama. H. The words “governing body” refer to the City Council of Northport. I. The words “Planning Commission” shall mean the Northport Planning Commission. J. The word “Board” refers to the Board of Zoning Adjustment of the City of Northport. K. In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this Ordinance and any caption, illustration, or table, the text shall control. L. The word “permitted” refers to uses with the designation “P” as shown in Table 4-1. M. The word “conditional” refers to uses with the designation “C” as shown in Table 4-1. N. The words “Planning Director” or “Director” shall refer to the Director of Planning & Inspections. April 2, 2012 II-2 Section 202. Abbreviation. The following abbreviations are used in this Ordinance and are intended to have the following meanings:     FAR: Floor Area Ratio     ISR: Impervious Surface Ratio     OSR: Open Space Ratio     ADT: Average Daily Traffic     AC: Acre     LUI: Land Use Intensity   Section 203. Definitions. When used in this Ordinance, the following terms shall have the meanings herein ascribed to them:  Abutting: Having a common border with, or being separated from such common border by an alley or easement. Access: Any means of ingress/egress to a parcel of property for pedestrians and/or vehicles. Access, Legal: The form of access which qualifies a development site for a building permit or certificate of occupancy, attesting that such property is legally accessible from a public street by means of direct road frontage, or a recorded easement across one (1) or more intervening properties. (See Section 1006). Accessory structure: A detached subordinate structure or building, located on the same lot as the principal structure, the use of which is clearly incidental to that of the principal structure. (See Figure 1) Accessory use: A use that is incidental and subordinate to that of the main building or use of land and that is located on the same lot, in the same zoning district and under the same ownership in all respects. Alcoholic Beverages: Any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, or other alcoholic beverage, or combination of liquors and mixed liquors, a part of which is spirituous, vinous, fermented, or otherwise alcoholic, and all drinks or drinkable liquids, preparations or mixtures intended for beverage purposes which contain one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume and shall include liquor, beer, and wine, both fortified and table wine. Alley: A thoroughfare either used or shown on any recorded description of the subject parcel(s) which is at a minimum not more than 20 feet wide and which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property. April 2, 2012 II-3 Alteration/Altered: Any addition to the height, width, or depth of a building or structure; or any change in the location of any of the exterior walls. A building or structure shall be classified as altered when it is repaired, renovated, remodeled or rebuilt at a cost in excess of 50 percent of its fair market value prior to the commencement of such repairs, renovation, remodeling, or rebuilding. Antenna: Electronic devices, whose purpose is to receive or transmit signals directly from ground-based sources, which are freestanding or mounted on a structure. Apartment: A building designed for occupancy by three (3) or more families living independently of one another. Appeal: A means for obtaining review of a decision, determination, order, or failure to act pursuant to the terms of this Ordinance as expressly authorized by the provisions of Section 1109. Applicant: One (1) individual who is duly authorized to submit development plans for review, request variances or changes in zoning classification, and apply for any form of development approval with respect to a development site. An applicant may be the property owner(s), or any person having written authority from the property owner(s). This written authority shall be provided in any form that the Planning Director determines to be appropriate. Arterial Roadway: A roadway which typically has a relatively high traffic volume with traffic signals at major intersections. The primary function of arterials is rapidly moving traffic. Assisted Living Facility: A special combination of housing, support services, and personalized health care designed to assist individuals needing help with daily living activities Attic: The non-habitable part of a building immediately below, and wholly or partly within, the roof framing. Basement: The lowest habitable story of a building usually below, or partially below, ground level. Bed and Breakfast Inn: A private, owner-occupied business with 4 to 20 guest rooms where overnight accommodations and a morning meal are provided to transients for compensation and where the bed and breakfast inn is operated primarily as a business. Bedroom: A room marketed, designed, or otherwise likely to function primarily for sleeping. Bufferyard: A unit of land, together with a specified type and amount of planting thereon, and any fence, wall, or berm which may be required between land uses to eliminate or minimize conflicts between them. April 2, 2012 II-4 Building: A structure built, maintained, or intended for use for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, plant materials, or property of any kind. The term is inclusive of any part thereof. Building, Accessory: See Structure, Accessory. Building Area: The portion of the lot occupied by the principal building including carports, porches, accessory buildings and other structures. Building Envelope: Designated area within a lot, as shown on a subdivision plat for zero lot line, single family attached, and twin house development, wherein all principal and accessory structures (including swimming pools) will be built, except fences and/or walls enclosing yards or patio areas. Building Frontage: The exterior wall of a building that faces a front lot line of the lot. Building Height: See Height of Structure. Building Line: A line shown on a plat indicating the minimum allowable distance between any structure and a lot line, as established by requirements of the developer and/or this Ordinance. Building Line, Front: A line, generally parallel to the front lot line, which passes through the most forward point of the principal structure. Canopy: A roof-like cover extending over a pedestrian way or right-of-way as a shelter or shield. This definition shall include the term “awning” and shall apply regardless of the materials used in its construction. Carport: An unenclosed and covered space for the private use of the owner or the occupant of a principal building and situated on the same lot as the principal building, intended for the storage of motor vehicles, with no facilities for mechanical service or repair of a commercial or public nature. Carrier/Provider: See Wireless Communication Service Provider. Cellar: An uninhabited room used for storage, usually beneath the ground or under a building. Certified Survey: Scaled drawing of a parcel or lot, showing property lines, dimensions, building locations, and other features of the property, which has been signed and sealed by a professional surveyor licensed in the State of Alabama. Church: See Place of Worship. City: The City of Northport, Alabama. City Council: Elected City Council of Northport, Alabama. April 2, 2012 II-5 Collector Road: A road which serves as feeders between arterials as well as provides access to the local streets. These are typically lower volume roadways that accommodate short distance trips. Conditional Use: A use that, because of special requirements or characteristics, may be allowed in a particular zoning district only after review by the Commission and granting of conditional use approval imposing such conditions as necessary to make the use compatible with other uses permitted in the same zone or vicinity Condominium: Property ownership arrangement in which a buyer receives a percentage interest in a development on an undivided parcel of land, resulting in the right to exclusive use of a specific dwelling unit or portion of the undivided parcel, such as a mobile home or recreational vehicle site. Common areas of the site which are not assigned to a specific owner, such as pools, clubhouses, parking areas and other amenities, are the collective responsibility of all owners or members of the condominium development. Corner Lot: See Lot, Corner. Curb Cut: Vehicular entrance onto a public right-of-way. Day Care Center: A commercial or non-profit facility whose purpose is to care for children in a group setting, where education may be involved and meals may be served. Such facility shall be licensed by the State of Alabama. Dedication: The transfer of property interests from private to public ownership for a public purpose. The transfer may be of fee-simple interest or of a less than fee interest, including an easement. Density, Gross: The quotient of the total number of dwelling units divided by the gross site area of the site, expressed as dwelling units per acre. Developer: The legal or beneficial owner(s) of a lot or parcel or any land proposed for inclusion in a development, including the holder of an option, contract to purchase, or a lease. Development: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more parcels (See Subdivision); the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any buildings; any use or change in use of any buildings or land; any extension of any use of land or any clearing, grading, or other movement of land, for which an approved development plan is required pursuant to this Ordinance or other regulations, codes and ordinances of the City. (See Also: Article V “Landscape & Bufferyard Requirements” Section 504 Definitions)  April 2, 2012 II-6 Development Site: One (1) or more parcels of land included in a single development plan, and preferably under common ownership, which constitute the entire area of development shown on a site plan or subdivision plat. The development site must include all land needed for required open space, bufferyards, landscaping, parking (except as provided for in Sections 610.03 & 610.04), internal access roads or driveways, and other physical design features needed to serve the proposed development. Drainage: The removal of surface water or ground water from land by drains, grading, or other means. Drainage includes the control of runoff to minimize erosion and sedimentation during and after development and includes the means necessary for water-supply preservation or prevention or alleviation of flooding. Drainageway: Minor watercourses, natural or man-made, that are defined either by soil type or the presence of intermittent or perennial streams. Drive-In Restaurant: See Restaurant, Fast Food. Duplex: Residential structure, divided horizontally or vertically, and designed for or occupied by two (2) dwelling units, contained entirely under one (1) roof on one (1) lot. Dwelling: Any building or portion thereof which is designated or used for residential purposes. Dwelling, Single-Family Detached: See Single Family Detached Dwelling Unit. Dwelling Unit: A room or group of rooms, providing or intended to provide living quarters for not more than one (1) family except as otherwise provided by this Ordinance. All rooms within the dwelling unit shall have internal access, and the unit shall have no more than one electrical meter. Easement: Authorization by a property owner of the use by another and for a specified purpose of any designated part of his property. No easement shall be recognized under this Ordinance which has not been created through a valid legal instrument and recorded in the Office of the Judge of Probate of Tuscaloosa County and those established by the City through continuous historic use. Eave Height: The distance as measured from grade level to the top of the fascia. Erosion: The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement of wind, water, and/or ice. Exterior Storage: Outdoor storage of fuel, raw materials, vehicles, products and equipment. In the case of lumberyards, exterior storage includes any impervious materials stored outdoors. In the case of truck terminals, exterior storage includes all trucks, truck beds, and truck trailers stored outdoors. April 2, 2012 II-7 Family: One (1) or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or guardianship plus one (1) unrelated person occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit; or not more than three (3) unrelated persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit in zoning districts where residential uses are permitted  Family Child Care Home: A child care facility which is a family home, and which receives not more than six (6) children for care. Such facility shall be licensed by the State of Alabama. Said child care facility may be administratively approved by the Planning Director, subject to meeting all requirements of Section 608.02. Filling: The depositing of sand, gravel, earth, or other materials to alter the elevation of a given site. Floodplain: For the purposes of this Ordinance, “Floodplain” shall mean areas adjacent to a river, stream, or other drainageway which lie within the 100-year flood elevation contour, as established by Flood Insurance Rate Maps or by certified survey. (See Figure 2) Floor Area: The sum of the gross floor area for each story of a building measured from the exterior limits of the faces of the structure. The floor area of a building includes basement floor area and includes attic floor area only if the attic area meets the current building code standards of the City of Northport for habitable floor area. It does not include cellars and unenclosed porches or any floor space in an accessory building or in the principal building, which is designed for the parking of motor vehicles in order to meet the parking requirements of this Ordinance. Floor Area Ratio (FAR): An intensity measure expressed as a ratio derived by dividing the total floor area of a building by the base site area. Where the lot is part of a larger development and has no buffer, that lot area may be used instead of the base site area. (See Figure 3) Forestry: A premises, or portion of a premises, occupied by an establishment primarily engaged in the commercial operation of timber tracts, forest nurseries and related activities such as reforestation services and the gathering of gums, barks, balsam needles, maple sap and other forest products. Garden Center: A place of business where garden-related products and produce are sold to the retail consumer. These centers, which may include a nursery and/or greenhouses, bring in most items offered for sale from other locations. These items may include plants, nursery products and stock, fertilizers, potting soil, hardware, power equipment and machinery, hoes, rakes, shovels, and other garden and farm tools and utensils. Garage: A deck or building, or part thereof, used or intended to be used for the parking and storage of motor vehicles. April 2, 2012 II-8 Gasoline Service Station: Buildings and premises where gasoline, oils, greases, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail (or in connection with private operation), where no part of the premises is used for paint spraying, body or fender repair, or the storage of dismantled or wrecked vehicle parts, and also where minor services are rendered; such as, sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries, and distributors; tire repair and servicing, but no recapping; replacement of minor items of equipment such as mufflers, and tail pipes, water hoses, fan belts, brake fluid, etc. ; radiator cleaning and flushing; minor servicing and replacing of carburetors; car washing and waxing. Gross Density: See Density, Gross. Group Home: Any home in which three (3) or fewer disabled persons, including their caretaker, reside who may or may not be related to one another. (See Section 409.E.3) Group Child Care Home: A child care facility which is a family home and which receives at least seven (7), but no more than 12, non- resident children for care where there are at least two (2) adults present and supervising the activities. Such facility shall be licensed by the State of Alabama. Height of Structure: For the purposes of this ordinance, the height of a building shall be measured from the average finished ground elevation at the base of the structure to eave height. Spires, belfries, cupolas, chimneys, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, elevator housing, mechanical equipment or other such structures, unless otherwise specified by this ordinance, placed above the roof levels and not intended for human occupancy shall not be subject to the height limitations. Home Occupation: A business, profession, occupation, or trade conducted for gain or support and located entirely within a residential building, which use is accessory, incidental, and secondary to the use of the building for dwelling purposes and does not change the essential residential character or appearance of such building. Hotel: A building, or portion of a building, containing sleeping units, which are occupied on a daily or short-term basis. A hotel may include a restaurant and banquet or ballrooms, and one (1) self-contained dwelling unit for the use of a resident manager. Impervious Surface: A surface that does not absorb water. Buildings, parking areas, driveways, roads, sidewalks, and any areas of concrete or asphalt are impervious surfaces. For the purpose of this Ordinance, impervious surface measurements shall exclude the water surface area of swimming pools. Impervious surface ratio (ISR): A measure of the intensity of land use which is determined by dividing the total area of all impervious surfaces on a development site by the site area. (See Figure 4)  April 2, 2012 II-9 Internal Access: Physical design of a dwelling unit in which the kitchen, bathrooms, and all other rooms intended for human habitation, are connected internally. Junkyard: Any land or structure used for a salvaging operation, including but not limited to the storage and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal, and discarded materials and the collection, dismantlement, storage and/or sale and salvage of two (2) or more unlicensed, inoperative vehicles. Kennel: Any place in or at which any number of dogs, cats or other domestic animals are kept for the purpose of sale or in connection with boarding, care or breeding, for which any fee is charged. Kindergarten (private): See Day Care Center. Lakes and Ponds: Natural or artificial bodies of water which retain water year round. A lake is a body of water of two (2) or more acres. A pond is a body of water of less than two (2) acres. Artificial ponds may be created by dams or may result from excavation. The shoreline of such bodies of water shall be measured from the maximum condition rather than from the permanent pool in the event of any difference. Liquor: Any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, or other alcoholic beverage, or combination of liquors and mixed liquor, a part of which is spirituous, vinous, fermented, or otherwise alcoholic, and all drinks or drinkable liquids, preparations, or mixtures intended for beverage purposes, which contain more than one-half of one percent of alcohol of volume, except malt or brewed beverages as defined herein. Local Street: A street the sole function of which is to provide access to the land uses that are immediately adjacent to the roadways. Lot: Refers to a single undivided portion of land that is either legally recorded in the office of the Tuscaloosa County Probate Judge, or is being proposed in good faith by well-prepared plan drawings for the purpose of being legally recorded. It is the responsibility of the property owner (or his/her agent) to insure that the property is legally recorded with the office of the Tuscaloosa County Probate Judge. Lot Area: The area contained within the boundary lines of a lot. Lot, Corner: A lot abutting two (2) or more streets at their intersection. If the two (2) streets form an angle of more than 135 degrees, as measured at the point of intersection of their center lines, the lot shall not be considered a corner lot. (See Figure 5) Lot Depth: The distance between the midpoints of the front and rear lot lines. Lot, Double Frontage: A lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on more than one street. (See Figure 5)  April 2, 2012 II-10 Lot Frontage: Lot width measured at the street lot line. Lot Line: A line bounding a lot which divides one lot from another or forms a street or any other public or private space. Lot Line, Front: In cases where the lot fronts on only one street, the lot line adjacent to the street; for corner lots, the side meeting minimum width requirements. For double frontage lots and corner lots meeting width requirements on both frontages, the property owner may choose one (1) as the front lot line for the purposes of front setback and placement of accessory structures. (See Figure 6) Lot Line, Rear: That lot line which is opposite to and most distant from the front lot line of the lot; in the case of an irregular, triangular, or gore-shaped lot, a line 20 feet in length, entirely within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum possible distance from, the front line shall be considered to be the rear lot line. (See Figure 6) Lot Line, Side: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. (See Figure 6) Lot Line, Street: In the case of a lot abutting only one street, the street line separating such lot from such street; in the case of a double frontage lot, each street line separating such lot from a street shall be considered to be the front lot line, except where the rear yard requirement is greater than the front yard requirement in which case one of the two opposing yards shall be a rear yard. (See Figures 5 & 6) Lot of Record: Any validly recorded lot meeting current requirements for size and/or width. Lot Width: The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at the required front setback. Lounge: Any place or premises in which alcoholic beverages of all types may be offered for sale, but does not meet the requirement for a Restaurant-Lounge, Restaurant-Pub, or Private Club Lounge. Malt or Brewed Beverages: Any beer, lager beer, ale, porter, or similar fermented malt liquor containing one-half of one percent (.5) or more of alcohol by volume and not in excess of four (4) percent alcohol by weight and five (5) percent by volume, by whatever name the same may be called. April 2, 2012 II-11 Manufactured Home: A dwelling, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight (8) body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 square feet or more, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any dwelling which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary (HUD). For mobile homes built prior to June 15, 1976, a label certifying compliance to NFPA 501, in effect at the time of manufacture is required. For the purpose of these provisions, a mobile home shall be considered a manufactured home. Manufactured Home Park: A parcel of land under single management which has been planned and improved for the provisions of services for manufactured homes for transient and/or non- transient use. A manufactured home park may not be platted or otherwise divided by fee simple ownership; however, the sale of interests or memberships on a condominium basis is permitted. All facilities and amenities, including roads, clubhouse or recreation facilities, and bufferyards, are privately owned or owned in common by residents of the park. Marina: An establishment for mooring, servicing, and storing recreation boats, as well as for providing supplies, provisions, and fueling facilities. A marina may include a restaurant and/or boat and motor sales store. Boat building or facilities for the dry docking or repair of watercraft exceeding two towns in weight are not included. Master Development Plan: A conceptual plan, meeting the requirements of Section 604 and depicting a mixture of land uses, showing an entire development site and all component stages or phases which express the overall development concept for the site at build-out. Minimum Floor Elevation: The lowest elevation permissible for the construction, erection, or other placement of any floor, including a basement floor. Mini-Warehouse: A building, or group of buildings, in a controlled-access and fenced compound that contains varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized stalls or lockers for the “dead” storage of a customer’s goods or wares. (See Section 409.M.7) Mixed-Use Development: The development of a tract of land and/or structure with two (2) or more uses of different land use categories. Such developments include, but are not limited to, combinations of residential, office, retail, public entertainment, and/or manufacturing uses in a compact urban form such as an office or research park. Mobile Home: See Manufactured Home. April 2, 2012 II-12 Modular Building: (Also known as a "manufactured building.") A factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for other than residential purposes, including without limitation commercial and industrial purposes, and which bears a seal of compliance with the regulations of the Alabama Manufacturing Housing Commission. Modular buildings must be constructed to meet the requirements of the city's building code and construction regulations as well as any other design standards the city may adopt which apply to conventional construction. Modular Home: (Also known as a "manufactured home" and a "modular home.") A factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for residential purposes and which bears a seal of compliance with the regulations of the Alabama Manufacturing Housing Commission. Modular panelized homes must be constructed to meet the requirements of the city's building code and construction regulations as well as any other design standards the city may adopt which apply to conventional construction. Motel: See Hotel. Nonconforming/Nonconformity: See Article IX. Nonconforming Lot of Record: Any lot, validly recorded in the public records of Tuscaloosa County, which complied with all applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations in effect on the recording date. See also Lot of Record. Nursery for Children: See Day Care Center. Nursery: An enterprise which conducts the retail and wholesale sale of plants grown on the site, as well as accessory items (but not power equipment such as gas or electric lawnmowers and farm implements) directly related to their care and maintenance. The accessory items normally sold are clay pots, potting soil, fertilizers, insecticides, hanging baskets, rakes and shovels. Nursing home: A building in which nursing care and related medical facilities are provided for individuals who because of illness, disease, injury or physical or mental infirmity need such care. Office-Warehouse: A facility combining office and warehouse functions in a single structure, for the primary purpose of wholesale trade, display, and distribution of products. Said facility is characterized by occasional truck deliveries and does not create nuisances such as dust, noise, or odors. Any warehouse activity with heavy trucking activities or nuisances shall be considered under the term “warehousing or wholesaling” (See Section 409.M.8) On-Site: Located within the boundaries of the development site. April 2, 2012 II-13 Open Space: Any parcel or area of land or water, either publicly or privately owned, set aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for the private use or enjoyment of owners or occupants of land adjoining such open space, or for the public at large. Open Space Ratio: The proportion of a site consisting of open space as defined by Section 417. Owner: The person or persons having the right of legal title to, beneficial interest in, or a contractual right to purchase a lot or parcel of land. Package Store: Any place or premise for the principal purpose of selling, at retail, alcoholic beverages by the bottle, can, pack, or case, for off-premise consumption. Should gross receipts from the sale of distilled alcoholic beverages exceed gross receipts from other sales and activities on the premises during any one (1) month, it shall be prima facie evidence that the principal purpose of the establishment is the sale of alcoholic beverages. Parcel: See Lot, Development Site. Parking Lot or Garage: An open area or a structure used exclusively for the temporary off- street storage of motor vehicles. Such area or structure may be an independent business or may be used in conjunction with any other business or commercial use. A fee may be charged. Perennial stream or Perennial River: is a stream or river (channel) that has continuous flow in parts of its bed all year round during years of normal rainfall. Place of Worship: A building used for regular religious worship, by the congregation or parts thereof, of an organized religion. Planned Development: A land development project comprehensively planned as an entity via a master development plan in the Planned Development District (PDD). Pond: See Lakes and Ponds. Principal Building: See Structure, Principal. Principal Use: See Use, Principal. Private Club: A corporation or an association organized or formed in accordance with the Code of Alabama. Provider/Carrier: See Wireless Communication Service Provider. Public Improvement: Any improvement, facility, or service, together with customary improvements and appurtenances thereto, necessary to provide for public needs as: vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems, storm sewers, flood control improvements, water supply and distribution facilities, sanitary sewage disposal and treatment, public utility and energy services. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stream http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/River April 2, 2012 II-14 Rain Garden: See Article V “Landscape and Bufferyard Requirements” Recreational Vehicle: A vehicle or a unit that is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle primarily designed for temporary living. Recreational vehicles include travel trailers, camping trailers, truck campers, and motor homes. (See Section 409.I.b.4) Recreational Vehicle Park: A lot on which campsites are established for occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for purposes of recreation or vacation. No recreational vehicle park shall be platted or otherwise divided by fee simple ownership; however, the sale of memberships and assignment of campsites on a condominium basis is permitted. All facilities and amenities, including roads, clubhouse or recreation facilities, and bufferyards are privately owned or owned in common by members of a condominium association. Restrictive, More (Less): A regulation imposed by this Ordinance is more (less) restrictive than another if it prohibits or limits development to a greater (lesser) extent or by means of more (less) detailed specifications. For example, regulations governing single-family uses would be more restrictive than the regulations governing business uses. Restaurant, Fast Food: An establishment whose principal business is the sale of food and/or beverages in a ready-to-consume state: (1) for consumption within the restaurant building, or within a motor vehicle parked on the premises or off the premises as a carry-out order; or (2) to be served through a drive-up window, and whose principal method of operation includes the following characteristics: food and/or beverages are usually served in edible containers or in paper, plastic, or other disposable containers. Restaurant, Standard: An establishment whose principal business is the sale of food and/or beverages to customers in a ready-to-consume state, and whose principal method of operation includes one or both of the following characteristics: (1) customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are served their foods and beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or counter at which food and beverages are consumed; (2) a cafeteria-type operation where food and beverages generally are consumed within the restaurant building. Restaurant Lounge: Any place or premise in which foods, refreshments, and liquor are offered for consumption within the building in which the establishment is located, which is operated by a responsible person of good reputation and which meets the requirements of Section 409.F.3. Restaurant-Pub: Any place or premise in which foods, refreshments, and malt or brewed beverages and/or table wines (but not liquor) are offered for sale for consumption within the building in which the establishment is located, which is operated by a person of good reputation and which meets the requirements of Section 409.F.3. Re-subdivision: See Subdivision. Right-of-way: An area dedicated to public use for pedestrian and vehicular movement, which may also accommodate public utilities. April 2, 2012 II-15 Satellite Dish Antenna: Parabolic or spherical antenna whose purpose is to receive and/or transmit audio and/or television signals to or from satellites. Setback: The required minimum distance between a structure and the front, side, or rear lot line. Shopping Center: A group of commercial-retail establishments planned, developed, and managed as a unit, under single ownership or control, and built in accordance with a unified architectural plan and with off-street parking provided on the property. Shopping Center, Neighborhood: A mixture of uses or structures on the same lot designed and built to contain commercial uses compatible with residential neighborhoods, including but not necessarily limited to variety stores, hardware stores, grocery stores, etc. Shopping Center, Regional: A shopping center having in excess of 500,000 square feet of gross floor area. Shrub: For the purpose of meeting landscape-planting requirements under this Ordinance, any species listed in Table 5-1 as either a deciduous or evergreen shrub. Sign: See Article VIII. Single-Family Detached Dwelling Unit: Freestanding structure, completely separate from all other structures, designed to house one (1) family as a single housekeeping unit. Single-family detached units may be constructed in subdivisions pursuant to Section 603. Site Plan: A plan, drawn to scale by a licensed engineer or other qualified professional, showing uses, structures, and all other physical features proposed for the development site, including but not limited to, bufferyards, parking, landscaping, drainage facilities and utilities, in accordance with the requirements of Section 1002. Site plans shall include, in written form, all information necessary to determine whether the proposed development meets the requirements of this Ordinance, such as proposed use(s) of the site, impervious surface and floor area, number of employees, hours of operation, and calculations of parking requirements. Steep Slopes: Land area where the inclination of the land’s surface from the horizontal is 30 percent or greater. Slope is determined from on-site topographic surveys prepared with a two- foot contour interval. Stream, Perennial: A natural watercourse which contains flowing water, year around. Stream Management Zone (SMZ): An area or distance around a perennial stream within which clearing and/or grading is limited or prohibited. Street: Any public or private way dedicated or set aside for public travel. Street Centerline: That line surveyed and designated by the City as the centerline of a street. April 2, 2012 II-16 Structure: Anything constructed or erected that requires rigid and permanent location on or attachment to the ground; including, but not limited to, buildings, signs, towers, monuments, statues, walls and fences; but not including telephone and other utility poles, overhead wires, retaining walls and terrace walls, wire fences, and any other object less than three (3) feet in height. Structure, Accessory: A subordinate structure, detached from but on the same development site as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental and secondary to that of the principal structure. (See Section 607.03; See Also Accessory Structures/Accessory Uses) Structural Alteration: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as the bearing walls, beams, or girders, or any change in the dimension or configuration of the roof or exterior walls. Also, see Alteration/Altered. Structure, Principal: A building in which is conducted, or in which is intended to be conducted, the main or principal use of the lot on which it is located. There shall be internal access to all interior portions of a single family detached dwelling unit. An outlying structure shall be considered an accessory building unless connected to the principal building by fully enclosed living space. (See Figure 1) Subdivision: Any division or re-division of a tract, parcel, or lot of land into two (2) or more parts by means of platting of boundaries in accordance with the City of Northport Subdivision Regulations. Tavern: Any place or premise in which malt or brewed beverages and/or table wines (but not liquor) are offered for sale for on-premise consumption, but which does not meet the requirements for a Restaurant-Lounge, Restaurant-Pub, or Private Club-Lounge. Telecommunications Facilities, Wireless: Any and all buildings, structures, fixtures or other accessories (such as electrical boxes, equipment sheds, guy wires, etc.) Installed, used or intended for use in conjunction with any of the following:  A. Cellular Communications facilities – low power transmitters used to transmit signals in a cell of cellular radio-telephone services (cellular phones), personal communications services (PCS), enhanced specialized mobile radios (ESMR), trunk mobile cellular radios, paging services and similar cellular-based communications to the general public. B. Commercial Satellite facilities – satellite earth stations which are greater than two (2) meters in diameter, and are used to send and/or receive satellite signals and similar communications. C. Microwave Relay facilities (Repeater) – used to transmit radio signals between two or more fixed points by microwave antennas and similar transmission services. April 2, 2012 II-17 Telecommunications Tower: Any ground-mounted structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more Communications Antennas. Communications Towers shall include:  A. Monopole Towers – cylindrical self-supporting towers constructed as a single spire. B. Self-Supporting or Lattice Towers – self-supporting towers with multiple sides of open-frame supports. C. Guyed Towers – towers anchored with guy wires. D. Camouflaged Towers – self-supporting towers concealed such that they blend with their surroundings. Such towers may be constructed to resemble objects, such as a tree or a street light, or may be concealed within another structure, such as a clock tower, church steeple or lamp post. Temporary Use: See Use, Temporary. Town House: A single residential unit sharing a common wall with at least one other unit in a structure consisting of not less than three (3) or more than six (6) dwelling units and having no other dwelling unit directly above or below. Such units shall be developed under Performance Residential standards set forth in Section 603.03. Twin House: Residential dwelling units sharing a common side wall with one (1) other unit, and located in a structure containing no more than two (2) units. Such units shall be developed under Performance Residential standards set forth in Section 603.03. Travel trailer. A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use. For purposes of these regulations, the term includes pick-up campers, camping trailers, pop-up-trailers, and motorized home living facilities constructed as integral parts of self-propelled vehicles. See Also Recreational Vehicle Understory Tree: For the purpose of meeting landscape planting requirements under this Ordinance, any species listed in Appendix A as either a deciduous or evergreen understory tree. Use: The purpose or activity for which land or any building thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained. Use, Accessory: An accessory use is one which: (1) is subordinate to and serves a principal structure or a principal use, (2) is subordinate in area, extent, and purpose to the principal structure or use served, (3) is located on the same development site as the principal structure or use served, and (4) is customarily incidental to the principal structure or use. See Section 607. See also Accessory Structures/Accessory Uses above  Use, Principal: The specific primary purpose for which land is used. April 2, 2012 II-18 Use, Temporary: A temporary use is one established for a fixed period of time with the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of such time. Such uses do not involve the construction or alteration of any permanent structure. Variance: Permission to depart from the literal requirements of this Ordinance granted pursuant to Section 1108. Warehouse: A building intended for the storage, wholesale, and distribution of manufactured products supplies, and equipment. Wetland: An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that, under normal circumstances, does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. (Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas). Wine: All beverages made from the fermentation of fruits, berries, or grapes, with or without added spirits, and produced in accordance with the laws and regulations of the United States containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume, and shall include all sparkling wines, carbonated wines, special natural wines, rectified wines, vermouths, vinous beverages, vinous liquors and like products. Fortified Wine – Any wine containing more than 14 percent alcohol by volume, but not more than 24 percent. Table Wine – Any wine containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume. Wireless Communications Service Provider: Any private company, corporation or similar such entity providing two-way interactive communications services to the general public by way of Cellular Communications facilities. Woodland: An area of natural vegetation or planted material, at least 50 feet in depth, covering one (1) acre or more and consisting substantially of canopy trees. Yard: The open space between a lot line and building line. Yard, Front: A yard extending the full width of the front of a lot between the front (street) right-of- way line and the front building line. (See Figure 6) Yard, Rear: A yard extending the full width of the lot in the area between the rear lot line and the rear building line. (See Figure 6) Yard, Side: The yard extending along a side lot line, from the front yard to the rear yard, between the side building line and a side lot line. In the case of corner lots, the yard along all established or future street lines shall be termed a front yard and shall meet requirements herein for such. (See Figure 6) Zoning Certificate: A permit, license, certificate of occupancy or other form of approval issued or signed by the Planning Director or his/her designee after all Zoning Ordinance requirements, as stipulated in Section 1004, have been met, which permits a requested use at a specific location. March 21, 2018  III-1 ARTICLE III. ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS  Section 300. Establishment of Zoning Districts. The City of Northport, Alabama is hereby divided into zoning districts of such number and character as are necessary to achieve compatibility of uses within each district, to implement the Official Zoning Map of Northport, and to serve the other purposes of this Ordinance, which are detailed in Article I. Section 301. Zoning Districts. For the purpose of this Ordinance, all land and water areas in Northport are hereby divided into six (6) “General” zoning districts, as follows:  Agricultural AG Residential “Single Family”: RS-1 through RS-4 Residential “Multi-Family”: RM-1, RM-2, RM-3 Office-Institutional: O-I Commercial: C-2 “Neighborhood Commercial”  C-3 “General Commercial”  C-6 “Highway Commercial” Manufacturing: M-1 “Light Industrial”   M-2 “Heavy Industrial”  Additionally, two (2) “Overlay” zoning districts have been established, as follows:  Special District: SD Flood Protection Areas: FP, FW  Several “Carryover” zoning districts will also be address by this ordinance, they are: Planned Development: PD-1, PD-2, PD-3 Appropriate RS district have been assigned to existing PDs and a Special District “SD” designation has been assigned to signify the requirement of a master plan for these districts. All special district standards will be applied as of the affective date of this ordinance. http://www.auburnalabama.org/planning/ZoningOrdinance/Article%20I.pdf March 21, 2018  III-2 Mobile Home Park MHP This is a “carryover” zone which will be shown on the map for existing mobile home parks; however, no new areas will be created in this district. Existing parks may continue as they exist, but may not be enlarged. All new manufactured home developments will fall under the criteria for Manufactured Home Subdivisions covered as a Conditional Use in an appropriate Residential District. Downtown/Riverfront Districts: The zoning criteria for the areas of Northport described in the Northport Downtown/Riverfront Master Plan and its associated Northport Core City Zoning & Design Standards are a separate and distinct document adopted by Ordinance #1688. For ease of access, the Zoning & Design Standards are depicted in this document as Article VII. If desired, the entire Downtown/Riverfront Master Plan document may also be acquired separately. Section 302. Map of Zoning Districts. Zoning districts established by this Ordinance are bounded and defined as shown on the Official Zoning Map of Northport, which, together with all explanatory materials contained thereon, is hereby made a part of this Ordinance. Section 303. Interpretation of District Boundaries. In the event of uncertainty with regard to their location, it is the duty of the Planning Director, or his/her designee, to interpret the location of the zoning district boundaries. Where a district boundary line divides a lot held in single and separate ownership at the effective date of this ordinance, the Planning Commission shall determine, based on findings of fact from the Planning Director, the disposition of said boundary line. The following rules shall be used to determine the precise location of any zone boundary shown on the Official Zoning Map of Northport: 303.01. Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following, the limits of any municipal corporation shall be construed as following such limits. 303.02. Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following, streets shall be construed to follow the centerlines of such streets. 303.03. Boundary lines which follow, or approximately follow, platted lot lines or other property lines as shown on the Northport Tax Maps shall be construed as following such lines. March 21, 2018  III-3 303.04. Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following, section lines, half- section lines, or quarter-section lines shall be construed as following such lines. 303.05. Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following, railroad lines shall be construed to lie midway between the main tracks of such railroad lines. 303.06. Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following, shorelines of any lakes shall be construed to follow the mean high waterlines of such lakes, and, in the event of change in the mean high waterline, shall be construed as moving with the actual mean high waterline. 303.07. Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following, the centerlines of streams, rivers, or other continuously flowing water courses shall be construed as following the channel centerline of such water courses taken at mean low water. In the event of a natural change in the location of such streams, rivers, or other watercourses, the zone boundary shall be construed as moving with the channel centerline. 303.08. Boundaries shown as separated from, and parallel or approximately parallel to, any of the features listed in paragraphs 303.01 through 303.07 above shall be construed to be parallel to, and at such distances from, such features as are shown on the map. Section 304. Maintenance of Official Copy of Zoning Map. At least one official copy of the zoning map shall be maintained in the office of the City Planner, upon which shall be recorded, after the passage thereof, every amendment to this ordinance which effects a change in any zoning district boundary. Such official copy of the zoning map shall be attested by the City Administrator/Clerk, and shall be available at all times for inspection by the general public. The City Planner may distribute copies of the zoning map to the general public and other officials, for reference purposes. However, the official copy of the zoning map maintained in the office of the City Planner, plus official records of the City Administrator/Clerk regarding actions of the City Council to amend district boundaries shall constitute the only official description of the location of zoning district boundaries, and persons having recourse to this ordinance for any purpose are hereby so notified. March 21, 2018  III-4 Section 305. Statement of Purpose and Intent of Zoning Districts. The following sections specify the purpose and intent of the zoning districts established by this Ordinance. 305.01. Agricultural District (AG). This District is intended to protect and preserve areas of Northport which are presently rural or agricultural in character and use. The standards developed for these areas are designed to permit development compatible with the preservation of their rural character and agricultural use, while not permanently foreclosing future development. 305.02. Residential Single Family Districts (RS). These Districts are intended to preserve the character of existing neighborhoods and developments under construction at the time of adoption of this Ordinance. It is designed to prevent these neighborhoods and subdivisions from becoming nonconforming under the terms of this Ordinance. This District is also intended to provide for future development of land where a Residential District is deemed the most appropriate zoning classification, and a preliminary or final plat for development of the land has been approved by the Planning Commission. It is also intended to provide for in-filling of existing neighborhoods on vacant lots with dwellings of like kind as defined in Section 203 of this Ordinance. Occupancy in RS zones is limited to “Family” as defined in Section 203. Certain structures and uses required to serve governmental, educational, religious, noncommercial, recreational, and other needs of such areas may be permitted as outright or as conditional uses within such districts, subject to restrictions and requirements intended to preserve and protect the single-family residential character of the districts. 305.03 Residential Multi-Family (RM). These districts are intended as medium and high density residential areas permitting progressively higher population densities, characterized by single-family detached, two-family detached, multiple-family structures, garden type apartments, and high-rise apartments. Certain structures and uses required to serve governmental, educational, religious, noncommercial, recreational, and other needs of such areas are permitted outright or are permissible as special exceptions subject to restrictions and requirements intended to preserve and protect the residential character of the district. 305.04. Commercial Districts (C). Northport has three (3) Commercial District designations: C-2 Neighborhood Commercial; C-3 General Commercial; C-6 Highway Commercial. March 21, 2018  III-5 The regulations for theses Districts permit future development consistent with the existing character of commercial development within each. Such fixed and stable areas will be allowed to continue to exist, and develop further, under the general regulations governing the design, and construction of an approved site plan. 305.05. Office-Institutional District (O-I). This district is intended to provide areas for the development of public, semi-public and private offices; schools, healthcare and child care facilities; places of worship and special residential development. Such uses are supportive of the surrounding residential community and should gain access via an arterial or major collector road. 305.06. Manufacturing District (M). This District is intended to accommodate commercial areas that must be segregated, because of negative impacts that cannot be made compatible with other uses through the application of performance standards. The creation of this separate District for manufacturing/industrial use recognizes not only nuisances, but also infrastructure and operational incompatibilities between its permitted uses and those of other districts. Accordingly, the standards for this District are designed to accommodate intensive industrial uses that generate nuisances, which either cannot be handled by technology or which are nearly impossible to police. Location criteria for this district focus on transportation, requiring that sites have access to a railroad, an airport or a major highway. 305.07. Special District. Special districts are hereby authorized for the purpose of providing optional methods of land development, which encourages imaginative solutions to environmental design problems and provide for a mixture of uses and density of uses with associated open space and amenities. Areas so established shall be characterized by a unified building and site development program providing for coordinated open space and architectural treatment. The special districts authorized by this Article are also intended to provide means for the establishment of uses, which are generally considered to be incompatible with most other land usage. 305.08. Flood Protection Areas. It is the intent of the flood protection area to provide protection in the floodway and flood fringe from the hazards and losses caused by flooding to residences, businesses, industries and public uses and to protect the natural flood environments that might be increased or significantly altered by improper use or development. The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in its “Flood Insurance Study” and the “Flood Insurance Rate Map” and any revision thereto are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this Ordinance. March 21, 2018  III-6 The degree of flood protection required by this Ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This Ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard, or uses permitted within such areas, will be free from flooding or flood damages. This Ordinance shall not create liability on the part of Northport or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this Ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made there under. 305.09. Downtown/Riverfront Districts. The Downtown/Riverfront Master Plan was developed to provide a collective vision for how the areas within its boundaries should develop in the future. The preservation of natural and historic resources as well as the compatibility of future development with historic development patterns is crucial to maintaining the overall character and charm of Downtown Northport. The Plan’s Zoning & Design Standards are depicted in this document as Article VII for ease of access. These Zoning & Design Standards are intended to help implement the Plan for the “Core City”. Six (6) districts and fourteen (14) sub-districts, or zones, which reflect the plan’s intended primary land uses, physical form and development character are created by the Standards. 305.10. Carry Over Zones. Mobile Home Park (MHP). This is a “carryover” zone which will be shown on the map for existing mobile home parks; however, no new areas will be created in this district. Existing parks may continue as they exist, but may not be enlarged. All new manufactured home developments will fall under the criteria for Manufactured Home Subdivisions covered as a Conditional Use in an appropriate Residential District. May 10, 2021 IV-1 ARTICLE IV. GENERAL REGULATIONS   Section 400. Introduction. The purpose of the regulations contained in this Article is to allow maximum utilization of land while insuring against detrimental impacts on the environment, neighboring properties, and the public interest. This insurance is provided by separating the incorporated area of the City of Northport into various zoning districts and permitting specified land uses within each, provided that a use meets all the additional criteria specified in this Ordinance. This regulatory approach has been termed “performance zoning,” because it permits a use to be developed on a particular parcel only if that use meets “performance” standards, which have been enacted to insure against the use causing, or having the potential to cause, the negative impacts mentioned above. The format of the regulations in this Ordinance, and particularly in this Article, differs somewhat from that of traditional zoning ordinances, because performance zoning requires that consideration be given to site parcel characteristics and the range of impacts that any land use may have. Section 401. Use Regulations. Section 402 specifies which uses are permitted in each zoning district and defines the use categories used in this Ordinance. The purpose of this Section is to indicate which land uses may locate in each zoning district and which uses may not locate therein. A further distinction is made between uses that may locate in a given district only upon obtaining a conditional use permit to do so. The uses generally described in Section 402 are specifically listed in Sections 404 through 408. Section 402. Uses Permitted by Right, Uses Permitted with Conditional Use Permits, and Uses Not Permitted. Except as otherwise provided by law or in this Ordinance, no building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied except in the zoning districts indicated and for the purposes permitted in this Section. The general use categories specified by Table 4-1 are defined in Sections 404 through 408. Uses permitted by right or as a conditional use shall be subject, in addition to use regulations contained in this Ordinance, to all performance criteria and other regulations governing yards, lot size, lot width, building area, easements, provisions of off-street parking and loading, and to such other provisions as are specified in other Articles herein. In particular, the laws of the State of Alabama and the regulations of the Tuscaloosa County Department of Health regarding water supply and waste disposal shall be adhered to. Further, no permits shall be issued until approval is obtained from the Tuscaloosa County Department of Health for water supply and sewage disposal, unless the premises are served by public water and/or sewage facilities. May 10, 2021 IV-2  All permitted uses and uses requiring conditional use approval pursuant to Section 1003 are listed in Table 4-1. In addition, the table notes uses for which special development standards apply, regardless of whether such uses are designated as permitted or conditional. Special development standards are listed in Section 409. A use listed in Table 4-1 in any district denoted by the letter “P” is a use permitted by right, provided that all other requirements of State law and this Ordinance have been met and provided that a zoning certificate has been issued in accordance with Article X. A use listed in Table 4-1 denoted by the letter “C”, may be permitted as a Conditional Use in any district, provided that the requirements of Article X have been met. May 10, 2021 IV-3  Table 4-1 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES USE CATEGORY ZONING DISTRICTS SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Agricultural Uses:    Agricultural/Farming P   Forestry x P       SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Agricultural Support :    Farm Equipment sales/repair C  P P C  Farm produce sales P  P  Farm produce supply P  P P C Farm product processing C  C C     SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Nurseries:    Wholesale C  C C C Retail  P P      SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Residential Uses:    Single Family Detached P P P   Multi-Family x P C C  Manufactured /Modular Home Subdivision x C C   Manufactured Home Park x C C       SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Institutional Uses:    Schools – Public/Private C C P P  Cemetery P C P P P  Place of Worship x P C P P P P  Community Center x C P P P P  Daycare x C P P P  Group Homes x C C P P P  Nursing Home/ Assisted Living Facility x C P P P    May 10, 2021 IV-4  USE CATEGORY  ZONING DISTRICTS SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Office Uses:    Business/Professional Office  P P P P C C  Bank or Financial Svs. P P P P C         SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Commercial & Entertainment Uses:     Auto Accessory Store x  P P  Barber/Beauty Shop  P P P P  Building Material Sales x  C P P P Commercial or trade school  C C P P P P  Convenience Store (no fuel) x  P P P  Dance/Gymnastics Studio  C P P P  Entertainment, Indoor  C P P  Entertainment, Outdoor  C  Garden Center or Nursery  C P P P P General Retail, Enclosed  P P P  Greenhouse/Farm Produce Sales P  P C  Home Improvement Ctr. C P P  Pawn/Smoke/Tattoo Shops1   P  Recreation, Indoor  C P P  Restaurant, Eat-In x  P P P P C Tavern  P P P C Shopping Center  P P P  Veterinary Office/kennel x P C P P P P  Payday Loan/ Title Loan/We Buy Gold/Check Cashing1   P   1Ordinance 1814 established a 1,500 foot radius separation between payday loan, title loan, pawn shops, we buy gold businesses, check cashing businesses. Ordinance 1814 also established a 3,000 foot radius separation for Tattoo Shops. All existing business at the time this ordinance was enacted is allowed a one time relocation within a C-6 zone without compliance with the density limits contained in this ordinance. See Appendix C. Ordinance 1975 amended Ordinance 1814  May 10, 2021 IV-5  USE CATEGORY  ZONING DISTRICTS SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Road Service Uses       Auto repair, paint/body x  P P P P Car Wash x  P P P P P Flea market  C C C  Gasoline/service station  C P P P Hotel/Motel  P P  Outdoor/Drive-In Theatre x C  C C  Restaurant, Fast Food  C P P P  Small Engine Repair  P P P  Vehicle Sales or Rental  C P P     SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Shopping Center    Regional Shopping Ctr. 500,000+ sf. Floor area   P P  Neighborhood Shopping Ctr. x  P P P      SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Commercial Support:    Bottling plant/bakery x  P P P Contractor storage yard x  C P P Printing/publishing x  P P P Recycled materials collection/storage x  C P P  Sales/minor storage of gaseous fuels x  P P P  Sales/repair of heavy equipment   C P P  Veterinary Office/kennel w/outdoor pens C  C  Warehouse  C P P Mini-warehouse x  C P  Office Warehouse x  C P  Wholesale distributor  C P P      May 10, 2021 IV-6  USE CATEGORY  ZONING DISTRICTS SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Commercial Recreation Uses x    Miniature Golf/driving range C  C C  Amusement Park   C  Fairground C  C  Amphitheater   C  Race track C  C C Stadium/arena   C C Skate Rink C  C P C     SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Recreational Rental Dwellings x    Campground C  C C Cottages/cabins C  C C Recreation vehicle park C  C C     SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR*     Recreational Uses:    Golf Course P   Park P P P P P P P P P Tennis Court P P   Swimming Pool P P          SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Public Service Uses:    Communication Tower x P P C P P P Hospital x C C C C C  Municipal Office/Facility C P C P P P  Public Utility C C P P P P P P Utility service yard or garage C C C P P P  Solid waste disposal facility   P  May 10, 2021 IV-7  USE CATEGORY  ZONING DISTRICTS SDS AG RS RM O-I C-2  C-3 C-6 M-1 M-2 DTR* Industrial Uses:    Bulk storage of chemicals or fuels x  C C  Commercial incinerator x  C C Food processing/packing x  C C Freight/trucking terminal   C C Manufacture of building materials   C P  Manufacture/storage of explosives x  C C  Manufacturing   C P Outdoor storage of machinery   C P  Recycled materials processing   C C  Scientific testing/research laboratory   C P  Slaughterhouse x  C C Storage of sand/gravel/blocks x  C P  Salvage Yard (Auto,etc) x  C C Mine/quarry x C  C C Warehouse, Distribution   C P  *Downtown/Riverfront – See Core City Zoning & Design Standards (Article VII)       May 10, 2021 IV-8  In addition to Table 4-1, the following regulations regarding permitted uses are established:  A. Existing garage apartments in the Residential (RS), Residential/Commercial/Institutional (RCI), and Historic Neighborhood (HN) Districts are permitted uses and may be improved within the existing structure, but there shall be no increase in the number or size of dwelling units in the structure. No new garage apartments are permitted in any district in the City. When existing garage apartments are improved, off-street, paved parking spaces shall be provided and any required bufferyards shall be installed. B. Uses not listed in Table 4-1 or Section 402 are not permitted in any district except pursuant to Article XI, which provides for interpretation of uses, or Article IX, which provides for nonconformities. C. Although a use may be indicated as permitted or conditionally permitted in a particular district, it does not follow that such a use is permitted or permissible on every parcel in such district. No use is permitted or permissible on a parcel unless it can be located thereon in full compliance with all of the performance standards and other regulations of this Ordinance applicable to the specific use and parcel in question. Section 403. Use Categories Defined. The categories of uses utilized by this Ordinance are defined in Sections 404 through 408. The uses not enumerated in these sections are not necessarily excluded. Article XI empowers the Planning Director to make interpretations of use. Section 404. Agricultural Uses. 404.01. Agriculture. Agricultural uses include farms (and farm residences); fish or poultry hatcheries; fur-bearing animal ranches; orchards; raising of livestock, horses, or poultry; truck farming; and all other agricultural uses. It does not include uses that may be accessory to agriculture, such as retail stores, nor does it include industries or businesses that support or are supported by agriculture. 404.02. Forestry. This use includes commercial logging and pulping operations, clearing or destruction of forested or woodland areas, selective cutting or clearing for commercial or other purposes, clearing for agriculture or other prospective land uses, and clearing of vegetation in reserved open space or resource protection areas. This does not include authorized clearing in accordance with plans approved pursuant to this Ordinance, removal of sick or dead trees, or removal of trees on non-contiguous lots of one (1) acre or less. May 10, 2021 IV-9 Section 405. Residential Uses. 405.01. Conventional residential. Conventional residential uses consist of all single-family detached dwelling units. All conventional residential development approved after enactment of this Ordinance shall conform to the requirements of Section 603.01. 405.02. Performance residential. Performance residential uses consist of all residential developments, including manufactured home parks approved after enactment of this Ordinance, except those included within the conventional residential use category. This use category permits the residential builder considerable freedom by allowing varied types of dwellings, lot sizes, and design. It also insures adequate open space in each development. Section 406. Recreational, Institutional, and Special Residential Uses. 406.01. Outdoor recreational. Outdoor recreational uses include arboretums; areas for cycling, hiking, and jogging; commercial stables; golf courses; nature areas; parks (private); picnic areas; play fields; playgrounds; outdoor swimming pools; tennis courts; wildlife sanctuaries; and all other outdoor recreational uses. Specifically excluded are outdoor movie theaters, miniature golf courses, and golf driving ranges. This use is basically an open-space use. 406.02. Indoor recreational. Indoor recreational uses include aquariums, community or recreation centers; gymnasiums; indoor skating rinks (ice or roller); arcades or billiard parlors; indoor swimming pools; tennis, racquetball and handball courts. 406.03. Institutional and Special Residential Uses. These uses include boarding houses; day or youth camps; cemeteries; churches; convents or monasteries; dormitories; day care centers; group child care homes; day or nursery schools; group homes; private libraries or museums; nursing homes; or private schools; schools or facilities for the physically or mentally handicapped and all other institutional and special residential uses. These uses are all supportive of the residential community. They provide indoor space for recreation, hobbies, meetings, education, and worship, as well as cultural facilities, group quarters for religious groups and the infirm or elderly. Some uses may be operated for private profit. Section 407. Commercial Uses. 407.01. Office. Office uses include governmental offices, business or professional offices, medical offices or clinics, and all other office uses. 407.02. Commercial and entertainment. This use category includes general retail commercial uses, primarily occurring indoors and serving a wide range of customers and requiring high- visibility locations. These uses include veterinary offices with indoor kennels; auto parts/accessory stores (no repairs); auto detailing; banks and other financial institutions (without drive thru windows); blueprint and copy stores; bowling alleys; commercial or trade schools  May 10, 2021 IV-10 (e.g., dance studios, schools for martial arts); currency exchanges; funeral homes; mortuaries; grocery stores and supermarkets (excluding convenience stores, e.g., “7-Eleven” stores); ice cream stores or stands; laundries and/or dry cleaners; light mechanical repair stores (e.g., watch, camera, bicycle, TV); stores selling liquor, or beer (in sealed containers, not for consumption on premises); lodges for fraternal orders; package stores; taverns, lounges and private clubs; restaurants (standard sit-down, not fast food); restaurant-lounges; restaurant pubs; retail sales or stores; service businesses or stores (e.g., catering, duplicating, photography, shoe repair, tailoring, travel agency, upholstering); shopping centers; theaters and auditoriums (indoor); upholstery stores; building materials sales (excluding asphalt or concrete mixing) with no outdoor storage; carpet and rug cleaning plants; extermination shops; equipment rentals (no outdoor display); automated free-standing walk-up facilities; barbershops and beauty shops; hotels and motels; and all other commercial and entertainment uses. 407.03. Commercial recreational use. These uses include amusement parks, drive-in theaters, fairgrounds, golf driving ranges (including miniature golf), outdoor theaters (or amphitheaters), race tracks (e.g., auto, dog, go-kart, harness, horse, motorcycle), archery ranges, sport arenas, stadiums, and all other commercial recreation uses. This group includes recreational uses that are greater nuisances than conventional outdoor recreational activities, because of their size and scale, traffic volumes, noise, light, or physical hazards such as flying objects or use of weapons. 407.04. Recreational rental dwelling uses. These uses include travel trailer parks, recreational vehicle parks, camps or campgrounds with overnight camping or vacation cottages, rental cabins, vacation cottages, and all other recreational rental uses. These uses are all short-term rental facilities oriented toward leisure activities for the vacationer or organized activities such as summer camps. The maximum length of stay for any user shall be 60 consecutive days. 407.05. Road service. This use category includes commercial uses having a high degree of customer turnover, outdoor activity or outside storage of merchandise. These uses include boat rental and/or storage facilities; body shops; convenience stores (e.g., “7-Eleven” stores); gasoline service stations; hotels or motels; retail sales with small engine repair as an accessory use, such as lawn mower stores; fast-food restaurants and any bank with drive thru tellers; parking garages/lots; vehicle rentals; vehicle repair (body) shops; vehicle sales, supplies, and service (new or used auto, boat, bus, equipment, motorcycle, truck); and all other road services. 407.06. Public service. These uses include hospitals, emergency services (e.g., ambulance, fire, police, rescue), service buildings or garages, utility or broadcasting stations or towers, utility service yards or garages, public schools, public libraries/museums/art centers, public parks, public animal shelters, and all other public utility and public service uses. 407.07. Agricultural support. These uses include farm equipment sales and repair, farm produce sales and supply (feed, grain, fertilizer), farm product processing (cider mill, dairies, poultry, or meat processing), and all other agricultural support uses. 407.08. Nurseries. This category includes nurseries with or without retail sales or greenhouses. A nursery is basically an open-space use, which generates little traffic and has few nuisances,  May 10, 2021 IV-11 such as late hours or customer or truck noise, associated with it. Nurseries are distinguished from more intensive garden center uses. 407.09. Regional shopping center. This category includes commercial land development consisting of 500,000 or more square feet of gross floor area. 407.10. Commercial support. This use category includes uses, which support the City’s retail economy by providing merchandise distribution, storage, and repair services. These uses include beverage distributors; blacksmith shops; bulk materials or machinery storage (fully enclosed); large equipment rental/sales/service; contractors’ offices and equipment storage yards; dry cleaning and laundry plants serving more than one (1) outlet; fuel, oil, ice, coal, and wood sales; furniture cleaning plants; furniture refinishing shops; manufacturing (including the production, processing, cleaning, testing, and distribution of materials, goods, foodstuffs, and products in plants with less than 30,000 square feet of floor area or fewer than 100 employees on every shift); mirror supply and refinishing shops; monument works; ornamental iron workshops; printing plants; publishing plants; trade shops (including cabinet, carpentry, planing, plumbing, refinishing, and paneling); small engine repair as a principal use; veterinary offices with open or partially enclosed runs, yards, pens; and/or kennels; wholesale business and storage; warehouses, office-warehouse, and mini-warehouses; and all other commercial support uses. 407.11. Neighborhood Shopping Center. A commercial development site containing one or more commercial buildings, together with all required parking, landscaping, buffering, signs, drainage facilities, and other design features to accommodate the uses permitted on the site. The purpose of the neighborhood shopping center is to serve the limited commercial needs of nearby residential development. It is not intended to provide commercial services to customers from other areas of the City. Permitted uses shall include branch banks; small garden supply stores; grocery stores or supermarkets; ice cream stores; laundries and/or dry cleaners; light mechanical repairs such as cameras, watches, or televisions; barber or beauty shops; standard sit-down restaurants (no fast food establishments); gasoline service stations; and similar retail stores and service businesses. Section 408. Industrial Uses. 408.01. Industry. This use category includes asphalt or concrete mixing plants; bulk material or machinery storage (unenclosed); fuel generation plants; grain elevators; meat packing plants or slaughterhouses; recycling facilities; truck, motor, or rail terminals; dyeing plants; food processing and packing plants; lumber yards; pilot plants; scientific (e.g., research, testing, or experimental) laboratories; also, those uses listed above as commercial support, any industrial use having 30,000 or more square feet of floor area or having 100 or more employees on any shift, and all other industrial uses. This group contains uses that have severe potential for negative impact on any uses that would locate relatively close to them. This group differs from commercial support uses in that it includes uses that require enclosed structures, which are large, tall, and unsightly, such as  May 10, 2021 IV-12 concrete batching plants. These uses also have severe potential for generation of odor and may involve large amounts of exterior storage; because of their scale, they are likely to have a regional impact. 408.02. Extraction and junkyard uses. This category includes junk, scrap, or salvage yards and all extraction uses. These uses create major disruptions to the area’s environment, even when carefully regulated. Dust, dirt, noise, and unsightly conditions can be anticipated. None of these uses are an acceptable neighbor in an urban environment. 408.03. Airports, Landing Strips and Heliports. This category includes any facility used for take-off, landing, storage, maintenance, and/or repair of aircraft. It also includes aviation-related activities, such as radar and communications facilities, flight schools, and cargo loading and storage areas. 409.00. Special Development Standards. Certain uses have unique characteristics that require the imposition of development standards beyond those minimum standards which may pertain to the general group of uses encompassing the use. These uses are listed below, together with the specific standards that apply to the development and use of land for the specified activity. These standards shall be met in addition to all other standards of this Ordinance, unless specifically exempted. In all instances the use of loud, garish colors on exterior building facades shall be prohibited. (See Section 1002 Site Plans for additional information)  A. Agricultural Uses. Forestry:  1. Subject property shall not be located within the area bounded by U.S. Highway 82 on the north, Black Warrior River on the South, and the Northport City Limits on the east and west. 2. Minimum lot size shall be 25 acres. 3. No trees shall be harvested within 50 feet of the perimeter of the site. 4. Harvesting activities shall conform to the Best Management Practices of the Alabama Forestry Commission. B. Conventional Subdivision. See Section 603.01. C.  Performance Residential Development. See Section 603.03. D.  Manufactured Housing. See Section 603.02. May 10, 2021 IV-13 E.  Institutional, & Special Residential Uses. 1. All new institutional uses must front on a road with a functional classification of Collector or Arterial, as designated in Appendix A. 2. Place of Worship:  a) Any new principal structure shall be set back no less than 50 feet from any  adjoining property under different ownership. b) Related accessory uses, such as student centers, day care centers, dormitories, boarding houses, and recreation centers, shall be prohibited in Residential (RS) Districts. c) For existing places of worship in Residential (RS) districts, uses are limited to sanctuaries, educational buildings and fellowship halls. The addition of such uses shall require the installation of all required bufferyards and landscaping, as well as compliance with all other applicable regulations. d) Except for places of worship in downtown Northport, all required parking shall be located on the development site, and not separated from the site of the principle structure by any public right-of-way. 3. Group Homes: Group Homes proposed to be located in residential zoning districts shall provide documentation of the following criteria to the Department of Planning & Inspections prior to being issues a business license in the City of Northport:  a) An approved license or authorization from the State of Alabama, or other authorizing agency, to operate a group home facility must be presented along with an application for a Northport business license. b) No more than three (3) unrelated persons may reside in the home; however, non- resident caretakers will be permitted. c) A parking plan showing sufficient off-street parking to accommodate residents and caregivers must be provided and approved by the Planning Department. A garage may be counted toward off-street parking. d) When the applicant for a group home use is not the owner of the subject property, a letter from the property owner approving the operation of a group home on their property shall be provided. e) Waivers, exceptions or modifications of these standards may be requested through a request to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. May 10, 2021 IV-14  F.  Commercial and Entertainment Uses. 1. Auto accessory store: no repair work to be done on premises. 2. Building material sales/home improvement centers: all building materials shall be kept within an enclosed structure or completely surrounded by a wood stockade or other opaque fence at least six (6) feet in height. 3. Restaurant-pub and restaurant-lounge:  a) Must meet licensing requirements of the Municipal Code of Northport, Alabama. b) Shall comply with all applicable regulations of the State of Alabama. 4. Veterinary office/kennel: no outdoor pens, runs or cages shall be permitted. Outdoor exercise areas will be allowed and shall be designated as such on the site plan. G. Road Service Uses. Any outside display of vehicles, equipment or other merchandise for sale, lease or storage shall be on a paved surface. No display of merchandise shall be allowed on the right-of-way or in any required bufferyard. 1. Auto repair, paint/body work:  a) Vehicles undergoing repair, painting or bodywork shall remain inside an enclosed structure at all times. b) Unlicensed, untitled vehicles shall not be permitted on the site at any time. No body or chassis shall be stored on the site at any time. c) All parts, including body parts, shall be stored within a completely enclosed structure. 2. Flea Market:  a) Flea markets shall be permitted only on property fronting on an arterial road, as designated in Appendix B with all major points of ingress/egress connecting to that road. b) At least one enclosed building of 300 square feet or more in size shall be constructed on the property. c) Minimum lot size shall be five (5) acres, with a minimum width of 200 feet and a minimum depth of 300 feet. jramm Highlight May 10, 2021 IV-15 d) No merchandise shall be sold or displayed less than 100 feet from adjoining residential property or 50 feet from non-residential property. e) Parking shall be provided at the rate of one (1) space per 50 square feet of sales area, as designated on an approved site plan. Parking areas shall have a smooth, stabilized and dustless surface; provided that no more than 50 percent of the required parking spaces may be grass or other suitable material in overflow and remote locations. Unpaved spaces and driving aisles shall be organized for efficient traffic flow, using tire stops, railroad ties, or other objects approved by the City Engineer. Parking spaces within 150 feet of any structure on the development site shall be paved with asphalt, concrete or other rigid paving material. f) A bufferyard shall be provided along all property lines. General and parking lot landscaping shall be required. 3. Gasoline and/or auto service station:  a) Site. The minimum frontage on an arterial street shall be 150 feet. b) Service Area. Pits, hoists, and all lubricating, washing, and repair equipment and workspace shall be enclosed within a building. c) Bulk Storage. Liquid petroleum fuels shall be stored in underground tanks. d) Structures. Structures shall conform to the following standards:  1. Vehicular canopy structures shall abide by applicable building setbacks. Accordingly, the maximum height of all such structures shall be noted on the site plan. The area under such canopies shall not count against the permissible Floor Area Ratio (FAR) allowed for such developments but shall count toward the allowable Impervious Surface Ratio (ISR)  2. Pump islands and underground fuel storage tanks shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from any property line. 4. Hotel/motel: Permitted only as a conditional use on property fronting on an arterial roadway, or on a collector road, as designated in Appendix A. Exception: As permitted in the Downtown & Riverfront Master Plan  5. Outdoor/Drive-in theatre: Accessory uses permitted shall be limited to a refreshment stand or booth, a souvenir stand or booth, and/or a children’s playground, which are for the exclusive use of patrons of the drive-in theater. 6. Small Engine Repair: Equipment under repair or not operational shall be screened from public view or stored indoors at all times. May 10, 2021 IV-16 H. Commercial Recreational Uses. All commercial recreational uses shall be subject to the following requirements:  1. No commercial recreational use shall be located within 300 feet of existing residential development. 2. Minimum lot size shall be 40,000 square feet or as required in Table 4-3. 3. No building, trailer, vehicle, or mechanical equipment supporting the use shall be located within 50 feet of any property line. 4. For a golf driving range, the following standards shall be met:  a) The site plan required pursuant to Section 1002 shall show the layout of the property and indicate the location of all driving ranges, putting greens, fences, and structures. b) Accessory uses permitted shall be limited to a clubhouse, refreshment stands, maintenance shed, a miniature golf course, and a pro shop. I. Recreational Rental Dwellings. 1. Recreational vehicle park: All recreational vehicle parks shall be developed according to the following standards:  a) Minimum lot requirements. 1. Minimum size for development site: 100,000 square feet. 2. The development site shall have at least 50 feet of frontage on an arterial road, as shown in Appendix A.  b) Vehicle Site Requirements. 1. The minimum vehicle site area shall be 1,200 square feet, with a minimum width of 20 feet and a minimum depth of 40 feet. All RV sites shall be shown on the site plan for the park. 2. The minimum distance between recreational vehicles shall be 10 feet. The minimum distance between a recreational vehicle and any structure shall be 20 feet. The minimum allowable distance between recreational vehicles shall, for the purpose of this section, be measured from and between the outermost structural parts or attached accessory features. May 10, 2021 IV-17 3. The addition or attachment of any accessory structures such as awnings, porches, carports, or individual storage facilities not specifically designed and included as a standard part of the original RV shall be expressly prohibited. 4. The removal of wheels and/or the installation of skirting materials around the base of a RV shall be prohibited. A recreational vehicle shall not be permanently affixed to the ground or any structure. c) Allowable Accessory Uses. 1. Clubhouse, bathhouse, camp store, laundry, swimming pool, and other shared facilities for the common use of the residents of a development. 2. No more than one (1) dwelling unit of conventional construction, at least 600 s.f. in size, for the use of a resident manager. d) Bufferyards. There shall be a bufferyard along all property lines where the park adjoins a road, vacant property, or a different land use. (See Article V) e) Parks shall not exceed the following performance criteria:  Maximum gross density:  10 RV sites/acre  Maximum I.S.R for entire park: .25  Maximum I.S.R. for any RV site: .60  Maximum building height (for conventional structures): 35 feet  For purposes of site plan review, it shall be assumed that impervious surfaces cover 60 percent of each designated RV site unless the site plan specifies a lesser amount. An open space area shall be provided which meets the requirements of Section 415 and which is easily accessible from all vehicle sites. The minimum size of such open space area shall be 20 percent of the entire tract area or 20,000 square feet, whichever is greater. f) Other Regulations:  1. Site Plan. Any applicant for the required permits to establish, construct, alter or extend a recreational vehicle park in Northport shall prepare and submit a detailed site plan in accordance with the requirements of Section 1002. 2. Access and Internal Streets. RV sites within the park shall be served by internal roads and shall not have direct access to public streets. Maintenance  May 10, 2021 IV-18 of private roads within the park shall be the responsibility of the developer and/or owner of the property. 3. Off-Street Parking and Maneuvering Space. The internal circulation system of a RV park shall be designed so that parking, loading or maneuvering of vehicles shall not necessitate the use of any public street, sidewalk, or right-of- way, or any private grounds not part of the designated parking area. Sufficient maneuvering space and off-street parking facilities shall be provided at each site to accommodate a towing vehicle. 4. Duration of Stay. Vehicle sites shall be rented by the day or week only. No RV shall remain in a park longer than 60 consecutive days. 5. Ground Cover. Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every vehicle site area or other vehicle parking area shall be grassed, paved, or covered with gravel to prevent soil erosion. 6. Drainage Requirements. Surface drainage plans for the entire tract shall be reviewed by the City Engineer, who shall determine whether the proposed plan is compatible with the surrounding existing drainage pattern and any relevant drainage plan of the City, prior to issuance of building permits. 7. Ownership. RV parks may not be platted or otherwise divided by fee simple ownership; however, the sale of interests or memberships on a condominium basis is permitted. All facilities, including roads, shall be privately owned or owned in common by residents of the park, and shall not occupy parcels of land which are deeded separately from the rest of the park. The City of Northport shall not be responsible for maintenance and/or repair of common facilities within any recreational vehicle park. 8. No RV shall be permanently affixed to the ground or any structure, whether in an approved RV Park or otherwise located. J. Public Service Uses. 1. TV Broadcast/TV/Radio and Telecommunications Towers: See Section 602. 2. Hospital: Development site shall have ready access to an arterial road, as designated in Appendix A.  K. Agricultural Support Uses. 1. Farm equipment sales/repair: All structures and equipment storage areas shall be located at least 200 feet from the nearest residential structure under different ownership. All repairs shall be performed within a fully enclosed structure. May 10, 2021 IV-19  2. Farm produce sales: Limited to sales of produce grown on the same property. 3. Farm product processing in Agricultural (AG)  a) All such uses must front on a road with a functional classification of Arterial, as designated in Appendix A. b) Minimum lot size: five (5) acres  c) The total floor area of all nonresidential structures shall be limited to 10,000 square feet. All machinery shall be kept within a fully enclosed structure. d) Outdoor pens or cages for animals shall be shall be set back 150 feet from all property lines. e) Processing facilities shall not operate between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m.  L. Nurseries. 1. Retail sales of gardening supplies in AG district:  a) Property must front on a road with a functional classification of arterial, as designated in Appendix A.  b) Bufferyards shall be provided along all property lines as required. M. Commercial Support Uses. 1. Bottling plant/bakery:     a) Minimum lot size shall be 80,000 square feet. b) Structures shall be set back 50 feet from all lot lines. 2. Contractor storage yard:  All equipment and building materials shall be screened from outside view by an opaque fence no less than six (6) feet in height. 3. Printing/publishing:  a) Minimum lot size shall be 80,000 square feet. b) Structures shall be set back 50 feet from all lot lines. May 10, 2021 IV-20  4. Recycled materials collection/storage:  a) Materials collected for recycling purposes shall be limited to inert solids such as plastic, glass, paper and metal. No liquids, or objects containing liquids, shall be stored on the site. Toxic chemicals or hazardous materials of any kind shall be prohibited. b) All materials collected for recycling purposes shall be stored within a completely enclosed structure. 5. Sales/minor storage of gaseous fuels: No more than 500 gallons shall be stored on the site at any time. 6. Sales/rental/repair of heavy equipment:  a) All repair work shall be performed within a completely enclosed structure. b) Equipment or vehicles under repair or not operational shall be screened from public view or stored indoors at all times. 7. Mini-Warehouse:  a) After receiving conditional use approval, the mini-warehouse shall be the sole use of the structure(s) in which it is located. Other activities in place of or in addition to the mini-warehouse shall not be permitted within those structures. No sales, service, or repair activities, other than the rental of dead storage space, are permitted on the premises. b) Where an applicant proposes additional uses on the same development site, the mini- warehouse use shall be physically separated from all other uses. The conditional use approval shall be assigned to a specific portion of the site, established by an internal boundary shown on the site plan. Within that area, no use other than mini- warehouses shall be permitted. c) No storage bay or unit in a mini-warehouse shall be used as a place of business, and no business license shall be approved for the property other than that of the mini- warehouse owner/operator. d) No storage bay shall contain plumbing or more than one (1) electrical outlet. e) A minimum of three (3) and maximum of five (5) spaces shall be provided in the vicinity of the office and a 27 foot minimum drive aisle to all storage unit doors. f) The mini-warehouse facility shall be completely surrounded by a fence at least six (6) feet in height, such that access to the site can be restricted. A masonry wall or wood  May 10, 2021 IV-21 stockade fence shall be provided where required under Article V; otherwise, chain link may be substituted. 8. Office-Warehouse:  a) The office/showroom component of this use must comprise at least 25 percent of the total floor area of the use b) No single building shall contain more than five (5) units. c) No equipment other than standard (2 axle) vehicles shall be parked long term in required parking and/or in front of the units. d) There shall be no exterior display or storage of equipment and materials. All equipment and materials shall be housed inside the structure, or behind an eight (8) foot privacy fence to the rear of the structure. N. Neighborhood Shopping Center, Up to 100,000 Square Feet. 1. Gasoline station in a neighborhood shopping center: See Gasoline and/or Auto Service Station under Road Service Uses. 2. Neighborhood Shopping Centers shall meet the following requirements:  a) A neighborhood shopping center shall be located only on an arterial roadway or at the intersection of an arterial road and a collector street, as designated in Appendix A. For this purpose each quadrant of such an intersection shall be considered a separate location. b) The total site area of a neighborhood shopping center shall be not less than three (3) acres. c) A combination of two or more natural materials such as wood, brick, stone, stucco shall be used on the exterior surface of all structures. d) Shall consist of multiple structures or if less than 15,000 sq. ft. in size may be one structure, either of which shall have articulated roof lines and varying façade elevations. (See Figure 7)  e) All utility meters, ground-mounted air conditioning and similar mechanical units shall be screened so as not to be visible beyond the boundaries of the site. f) A master signage plan for the overall proposed development shall be submitted and approved in conjunction with the required site plan. May 10, 2021 IV-22 O. Industrial Uses. 1. Bulk storage of chemicals or fuels: a) Minimum lot size shall be 100,000 square feet. b) Storage tanks or structures shall be at least 100 feet from all property lines. 2. Commercial incinerator:  a) Minimum lot size shall be 100,000 square feet. b) Structures shall be at least 100 feet from all property lines. 3. Food processing/packaging:  a) Minimum lot size shall be 100,000 square feet. b) Structures shall be at least 100 feet from all property lines. 4. Manufacture of explosives:  a) Minimum lot size shall be 150,000 square feet. b) Structures shall be at least 150 feet from all property lines. 5. Slaughterhouse:  a) Minimum lot size shall be five (5) acres. b) Structures shall be at least 150 feet from all property lines. c) No outdoor pens, cages or runs shall be permitted. d) No structure shall be located within 500 feet of any property on which residential uses are permitted. 6. Storage of sand/gravel/blocks: Stored materials shall be completely surrounded by an opaque fence no less than ten (10) feet in height. Said fence may be constructed along property lines, but shall be set back no less than 25 feet from the right-of-way of any abutting public roads. May 10, 2021 IV-23 7. Auto Salvage yard, junkyard or storage area:  a) Storage of Materials          1. Material that is not salvageable shall not be permitted to accumulate, except in bins or containers, and shall be disposed of in an approved sanitary landfill. The period of accumulation is limited to two (2) months. 2. In no case shall material that is not salvageable be buried or used as fill. 3. Any items, which can be recycled or salvaged, shall be accumulated in bins or containers to be sold to a recycling firm. 4. Recyclable material, which cannot be stored in bins or containers, may be stored in the open. 5. Junkyard operators shall be responsible for compliance with all applicable Federal and State regulations pertaining to the handling, storage, and disposal of waste fluids. In no case shall disposal of waste fluids be permitted on-site. 6. In any open storage area, it shall be prohibited to keep any ice box, refrigerator, deep-freeze locker, clothes washer, clothes dryer, or similar air-tight unit having an interior storage capacity of one and one- half (1.5) cubic feet or more, from which the door has not been removed. 7. Facilities not having conditional use approval as a Junkyard Use will not be allowed to accumulate materials for more than 30 days. b) Screening. All auto salvage yards, junkyards and storage areas shall comply with the following screening requirements:  1. All outdoor storage facilities shall be completely surrounded by a continuous fence or wall of masonry, wood or other opaque material, which shall be a minimum of six (6) feet in height without openings of any type, except for one entrance and/or one exit which shall not exceed 25 feet in width. 2. Gates at entrance or exit shall be of a material without openings. 3. The screen shall be constructed of the same type of material throughout. 4. No screen shall be constructed of metal that will rust. 5. Screens shall be maintained and in good repair at all times. May 10, 2021 IV-24 8. Mine/quarry:  a) Minimum parcel size shall be 100 acres. b) A 300-foot buffer zone shall be established around the perimeter of the property. Within this area, the natural or existing vegetation shall be maintained or improved, and no digging, dredging, blasting, storage of tailings, or other mining-related activities shall be allowed. Where no natural vegetation exists the Planning Director or his/her designee may require additional buffering as deemed necessary. c) No structures, vehicles, equipment, or parking areas shall be located within 100 feet of a property line. May 10, 2021 IV-25  Table 4-2: Standards for Nonresidential Uses by District District Uses Maximum FAR Maximum ISR Minimum Site Area3 Minimum Lot Width4 Agricultural (AG)  Agriculture/Nurseries na 0.05 3 ac. none Recreation Rental 0.01 0.10 3 ac. none Recreation 0.02 0.40 3 ac none Public Service2 0.20 0.50 3 ac none Agriculture Support 0.25 0.50 40,000 sf. none Conditional Use 0.12 0.30 3 ac none All Other Uses 0.15 0.30 3 ac none    Office-Institutional (O-I)  Institutional .75 .85 40,000 sf. 100’ Office .75 .85 40,000 sf. 100’ Commercial & Entertainment .40 .60 None 75’ Recreational .10 .40 10,000 sf. none Public Service2 .35 .60 7,500 sf. 75’ Conditional Use .50 .70 40,000 sf. 100’ All Other Uses .70 .65 20,000 sf. 100’    Neighborhood Commercial (C-2)  Institutional .50 .60 20,000 sf. 75’ Office .50 .60 20,000 sf. 75’ Commercial & Entertainment .40 .70 None 75’ Road Service .35 .70 30,000 sf. 100’ Shopping Center .40 .60 3 ac. 100’ Recreational .10 .40 10,000 sf. none Public Service2 .35 .60 7,500 sf. 75’ Conditional Uses .50 .70 40,000 sf. 100’ All Other Uses .70 .65 20,000 sf. 100’    General Commercial (C-3)  Nurseries .05 .50 80,000 sf. none Institutional .60 .70 30,000 sf. 75’ Office .60 .70 30,000 sf. 75’ Commercial & Entertainment .40 .80 None 75’ Road Service .35 .80 30,000 sf. 100’ Shopping Center .40 .70 3ac. 100’ Commercial Support .50 .70 40,000 sf. 100’ Recreational .10 .40 15,000 sf. none  May 10, 2021 IV-26 Public Service2 .35 .70 7,500 sf. 75’ Conditional Uses .50 .80 40,000 sf. 100’ All Other Uses .70 .75 20,000 sf. 100’ Table 4-2: Standards for Nonresidential Uses by District District Uses Maximum FAR Maximum ISR Minimum Site Area3 Minimum Lot Width4 Highway Commercial (C-6)  Agricultural Support .40 .70 None None Nurseries .05 .50 None None Road Service .35 .90 None None Recreational .10 .40 None None Public Service2 .35 .80 None None Conditional Uses .50 .90 None None All Other Uses .35 .90 None None   Industrial (M-1) & (M-2)  Agricultural Support .80 .90 40,000 sf. 100’ Nurseries .05 .50 80,000 sf. None Office .80 .90 40,000 sf. 100’ Road Service .35 .90 30,000 sf. 100’ Commercial Support .80 .90 10,000 sf. 100’ Commercial Recreation .40 .90 40,000 sf. 100’ Recreational .10 .40 10,000 sf. None Public Service2 .50 .80 10,000 sf. 100’ Industrial .80 .90 40,000 sf. 100’ All Other Uses .40 .90 80,000 sf. 100’    Special District (SD)5        1 No minimum lot size/width is required for public service distribution facilities for sewer, water, telephone, gas and electricity; minimum lot area for communication towers shall be determined by setbacks requirements as set out in Section 602. 2 For lots not meeting the minimum size requirement in any district, see Article IX. 3 In cases where side lot lines are not parallel because the lot fronts on a curved right-of-way, minimum width at road frontage shall be as follows: a. Curved right-of-way: 75 percent of normal width requirement b. Subdivision cul-de-sac: 50 percent of normal width requirement Width at road frontage shall be measured along a straight line connecting the foremost points of side lot lines. 4 See Section 605. May 10, 2021 IV-27  Table 4-3: Table of Dimensional Standards – Non Residential Uses. Zoning District Maximum Height Of Structure (feet) Minimum Setbacks (in feet) Front Yard Rear Yard One Side1 Total Side AG2 353 50 50 50 100 O-I 50 25 25 10 20 C-2 40 20 20 10 20 C-3 40 20 20 10 20 C-6 50 40 25 105 205 M-1 60 4 4 4 4 M-2 60 4 4 4 4    1 Side Yard on Street shall be equal to Front Yard setback 2 See Table 6-2 and Section 603.03 “Performance Residential Developments” for Residential Setbacks 3 Inhabited Structures Only 4 Equal to Height of Structure 5 May be reduced to zero (0) feet by Special Exception  Section 410. Resource Protection Standards  A. All development shall be preceded by the identification of any environmental or natural feature described below and shall meet the specified standards for environmental protection. B. Site alterations, re-grading, filling and clearing or planting vegetation prior to approval of the plans for development shall be a violation of this Ordinance. Reference in this section to “open space” is intended to mean the term as it is defined by Article II and described in Section 415. C. Perennial Streams – 50’ from top of stream bank on either side shall remain undisturbed unless otherwise permitted by the City Engineer. D. Steep slopes. 1. Areas with slopes of 33 percent (3:1) or greater: not more than 15 percent of such areas shall be developed and/or re-graded and/or stripped of vegetation with the exception that no more than five (5) percent of such areas may be disturbed in the case of erosion-prone soils, as defined by the Natural Resources Conservation Service. 2. When identifying “steep slope” areas of a development (rise/run > 33%) the engineer shall use a topographic map or site plan having a contour interval of not less than 2 feet to determine changes in elevation (rise). Unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Engineering staff a length (run) of not more than 100 feet shall be used to calculate the approximate slope of the area under consideration. May 10, 2021 IV-28  3. When a proposed development will not meet the standards of Section 410.D.1. above, a development plan must be submitted for the review of the City Engineer and approval of the Planning Commission. Approval of this development plan shall be based on its consistency with the intent of this Ordinance. Section 411. Reclamation of Undeveloped Land. In the event that construction of a development has not been completed within one year of date of approval of the preliminary plat or development plan; said development shall be reviewed by the Planning and Engineering staff to determine if reasonable progress toward completion of the development is being made. Evidence of reasonable progress may include, but shall not be limited to, installation of streets, utility lines and stormwater management facilities; laying structural foundations; and completion of any stage of a development approved under a staging plan pursuant to Section 1002.09. However, the clearing and grubbing of land, in the absence of other improvements, shall not by itself constitute evidence of reasonable progress. Upon a determination that reasonable progress is not being made, the Planning Commission may require the owner of the development site to restore the land to the same condition that existed prior to the initiation of the development, and place a time limit on completion of said restoration. If such restoration is not feasible, the City Engineer and the Planning Director shall work with the property owner to determine an acceptable condition or degree of reclamation; at the very least, the site shall be sodded or planted in grass, and appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent or eliminate soil erosion. In all cases, restoration activities shall be consistent with appropriate Best Management Practices as recommended by the Alabama Forestry Commission, the Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) and/or the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). Section 412. Areas Subject to Flooding. The boundaries of special flood hazard areas shall be identified by referencing the most current FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), an approved Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) or an approved Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). The boundaries of any special flood hazard area shall be clearly denoted on all development plans for parcels subject to flooding. Said boundaries shall be determined using a site specific, topographic survey of the parcel and the appropriate FIRM, LOMR, or LOMA. On those parcels for which no base flood elevation (BFE) has been developed, it shall be the responsibility of the owner to have a registered professional engineer or hydrologist to establish a BFE. June 28, 2021 IV-29 On-site topographic surveys shall be performed to locate the precise floodplain line on a parcel prior to any development. The survey shall use the flood profile contained in the sources listed above or, if no such profile exists, by performing standard runoff calculations such as those contained in Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control, prepared by the Natural Resources Conservation Service. 412.01. Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance #2028, as amended, shall be applicable to development in the floodplain. See Appendix A. 412.02. Permanent open space. All such areas shall be permanent open space. No uses or improvements other than those permitted herein shall be permitted in any area consisting of floodway as defined by this Ordinance. 412.03. Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted within the floodway fringe as a matter of right:     A. All uses that are permitted in designated open spaces. B. All uses that are classified as agriculture, nurseries, and outdoor recreation. C. Piers, bridges and bridge approaches, picnic shelters, and stormwater detention facilities, so long as the building permit application shows that a licensed engineer has certified that such structures are designed to withstand the forces exerted by the 100-year flood event at that location. 412.04. Building Elevation. All other buildings or any residential, institutional, office, commercial and entertainment, commercial recreation, recreational rental dwelling, or nursery uses (other than those specifically named in this Section) may be permitted as conditional uses pursuant to Section 1003, provided that all habitable floor area shall be raised so that no floor, or its structural supports, or any utility line has less than one (1) foot of clearance between its lowest point and the 100-year flood elevation. Any reduction of cross-sectional area due to vertical supporting members shall be offset by compensatory storage. Vehicular access to such structures shall be at or higher than the 100 year base flood elevation (BFE). Exceptions to 412.04 above may be as follows subject to the approval of the City Engineer: A. A non-residential building may have its finished floor elevation below the BFE as long as it fully complies with FEMA requirements. B. A non residential building may have parking or parking access below BFE as long as it fully complies with FEMA requirements. Note: Evidence of full compliance with FEMA requirements must be provided at time of submission. May 10, 2021 IV-30 412.05. Installation of fill materials. Fill may be placed within the floodway fringe only when allowed as a conditional use pursuant to Section 1003. An application for such conditional use shall be accompanied by detailed fill plans, showing existing and proposed conditions. If a structure is to be placed on the fill, the plans shall show the structure as well. In considering the application, the Planning Commission shall determine whether the proposed fill meets the general standards set forth in Section 1003, and the following additional standards:  A. The cross-sectional area of a riverine floodplain shall not be reduced by more than two and one-half (2 ½) percent on either side of the centerline of the watercourse; an inland depressional floodplain may have its location and contours altered through cut and fill over 30 percent of its surface area. B. Compensatory storage shall be provided to offset the storage lost through the filling. C. All changes in velocity, depth of flood elevation, or storage shall be limited to the property owners who have been granted flood or flow easements, provided that in no event shall an increase in flood elevation be permitted if it would affect any existing building or bring any building to within one (1) foot of the flood elevation. D. In no instance shall the depth of fill in a riverine floodplain exceed five (5) feet, nor shall any fill be placed within 50 feet of the top of the stream bank or in a location which might be endangered by or accelerate a meander. In an inland depressional floodplain the depth of fill measured from the natural grade to the new surface shall not exceed five (5) feet. E. Fill shall consist of soil or rock materials only; sanitary landfills shall not be permitted in the floodplain. Further, all fill areas shall be stabilized with material that will insure and protect against erosion hazards, undercutting, and undermining. 412.06. Filling in Floodway. See Section 1003. 412.07. Structural anchoring. Any structure placed in the floodplain shall be anchored firmly to prevent floodwaters from carrying it downstream. Such anchoring shall be sufficient to withstand a flood velocity of six (6) feet per second. The Planning Commission shall require the applicant to submit the written opinion of a registered professional engineer that the proposed structural design meets this standard. Section 413. Lakes and Ponds. All such areas that serve a stormwater or flood retention purpose shall be permanent open space maintained by the developer, property owner or other legally bound and authorized agent. No development or diverting of these bodies of water shall be permitted without a development plan approved by the City Engineer. Alteration of lakes and ponds shall be permitted only if surface area and flood retention volumes remain unchanged or are enlarged. May 10, 2021 IV-31 Lake Shorelines: The shorelines of lakes [two (2) acres or greater in size], consisting of the area within 100 feet from the shorelines, shall contain no more than 15 percent impervious surfaces. At least 75 percent of all such areas shall be permanent open space. Pond Shorelines: The shorelines of ponds [less than two (2) acres in size], consisting of the area within 50 feet from the shorelines, shall contain no more than 15 percent impervious surfaces. At least 75 percent of all such areas shall be permanent open space. Section 414. Drainageways. Re-grading, stripping of vegetation, or filling in drainageways is permitted only after review and written approval by the City Engineer, provided that the resultant drainageway has less velocity than existed previously or reduces stream bank erosion through the provision of erosion control measures. Section 415. Open Space. Land that is required by this Ordinance to remain as open space may be used for the recreation, agriculture, resource protection, amenity and other purposes specified in this Section. Open- space land shall be freely accessible to all residents of a development, with the exception that agricultural land uses shall be permitted to restrict access to that land to those solely engaged in agricultural pursuits. Open space shall have qualities making it useful to residents of the development for either passive or active recreation, and will be developed to serve that purpose. Open spaces shall serve an important environmental/resource protection or visual role in separating the development from existing public ways or from other existing or potential developments; or shall be of value in dividing the development into coherent sub-areas. Non-recreational buildings, except those related to agricultural uses permitted under Section 415.01(C) shall not occupy open-space land. 415.01. All developments required by this Ordinance to provide open space shall meet the following requirements. A. Land designated as open space shall be maintained as open space and may not be separately sold, subdivided, or developed, and no structures shall be built on such land, except as provided below. All such properties shall be owned and maintained by the developer, owner of the development site, homeowners association, or other private entity approved by the City Attorney. B. An open-space plan shall be submitted as a part of the application for a site plan or subdivision approval. This plan shall designate and indicate the boundaries of all open-space areas required by this Ordinance. The plan shall:   May 10, 2021 IV-32 1. designate areas to be reserved as open space. The specific design of open-space areas shall be sensitive to the physical and design characteristics of the site. 2. designate the type of open space, as established in this Section, to be provided. 3. specify the manner in which the open space shall be perpetuated, maintained, and administered in accordance with Section 415.02. 4. include proof of a mandatory and functioning Home Owners Association and contact information for same. The Northport Department of Planning & Inspections shall be provided an annual update of said contact information  C. The types of open space that may be provided to satisfy the requirements of this Ordinance, together with the maintenance required for each type, are as follows:  1. natural areas are areas of undisturbed vegetation or areas replanted with vegetation after construction. Woodlands and wetlands are specific types of natural areas. Natural watercourses are to be maintained as free flowing and devoid of debris. Stream channels shall be maintained so as not to alter the base flood elevation. 2. agricultural uses specified in Section 404.01. 3. garden plots are the division of open space into plots for cultivation as community gardens. Any change of use for the open space must be with the approval of the adjoining land owners and the Home Owners Association. 4. recreational areas are areas designed for specific, active recreational uses having minimal requirements for structures, such as tennis courts, swimming pools, softball fields, and golf courses. An enclosed structure shall be permitted in a recreational area only where it directly supports a specific facility and does not require off-street parking. Recreational areas shall be accessible to all residents of the development. 5. greenways are linear green belts linking residential areas with other open-space areas. These greenways are encouraged to designate developed bicycle paths, footpaths, bridle paths, fitness trails, or other similar development. Inter- connecting the greenway system between residences and recreational areas is encouraged. D. Open space shall be appropriately located and large enough to address the open space characteristics cited throughout Section 415. 1. No dwelling unit shall be located more than 750 feet from designated open space. The Planning Commission may waive this distance requirement where the developer proposes a major recreational facility which will occupy at least 50  May 10, 2021 IV-33 percent of the required open space for the development. No more than ten (10) percent of the dwelling units in the development may be occupied before this facility is completed and available for use. Where intervening non-recreational properties separate a dwelling unit from an open space area, the Planning Director may require an easement or other means of access for non-motorized traffic to avoid the need for pedestrians to cross or travel on roads carrying vehicular traffic. 2. No parcel of property, or portion thereof, less than 40 feet wide and 7,500 square feet in size shall be counted toward the designated open space requirement. Open space areas containing paved or stabilized paths for pedestrians and/or bicycles shall be exempt from this requirement if such paths are part of a comprehensive circulation system serving a portion of the development or are included in connecting Greenways. 3. All open space shall be easily visible and freely accessible. 4. The following shall not count toward fulfillment of designated open space requirements:  a) platted lots for residential use or designated sites for manufactured homes or recreational vehicles;  b) easements for roads, driveways or any other use which is not consistent with the purposes of open space as established in this Section; c) parking areas, including adjacent areas containing required landscaping; d) public or private right-of-way; e) private roads and driveways; f) areas of required spacing between structures, manufactured homes or recreational vehicles; g) Commonly owned lawns consisting of grass with or without trees. (i.e. condominiums, townhouses, patio homes, etc.) h) areas which have been cleared of vegetation, excavated, filled, or otherwise altered from their natural state unless such alteration is consistent with the proposed use of the open space parcel approved as part of an overall development plan;  i) any development site (as established by a site plan) containing a clubhouse or a non-recreational use including, but not limited to, office, restaurants, gift shops, and groundskeeper storage buildings;  May 10, 2021 IV-34  k) any other areas which the Planning Director finds to be inconsistent with the intent of this Section. In addition, no lake, pond, or other permanent water body shall constitute more than 25 percent of the total open space required for the development. No golf course shall constitute more than 60 percent of the total open space required for the development. 415.02. Preservation of open space. Open-space areas shall be maintained so that their use and enjoyment as open space is not diminished or destroyed. Where open space is to be provided within a subdivision, such areas shall be designated by creating separate parcels within the perimeter of the plat. These parcels shall be given a sequential lot number, labeled as to their intended use, and the plat shall note the entity or entities having ownership and maintenance responsibility. Where open space is provided within a development site, which is the subject of a site plan, and is under different ownership than the rest of the site, it shall nevertheless remain part of the development site pursuant to Section 1002.11. Unless the site plan is modified or terminated in accordance with Section 1002.08, the open space areas shall be used only as provided in Section 415. The site plan shall note the entity or entities having ownership and maintenance responsibility. Open-space areas may be owned, preserved, and maintained as required by this Section by any of the following mechanisms or combinations thereof:  A. Common ownership of the open space by a homeowner’s association, which assumes full responsibility for its maintenance. B. Deed-restricted private ownership that shall prevent development and/or subsequent subdivision of the open-space land and provide the maintenance responsibility. This arrangement shall be noted on the site plan and/or subdivision plat. Full and proper legal documentation shall be submitted to the Planning Director Full and proper written legal documentation of said ownership and maintenance responsibilities shall be submitted to the Planning Director and be approved by the City Attorney prior to commencement of development activities. Section 416. Transportation Impact Report. 416.01. Purpose. The transportation impact report shall identify the traffic impacts of a proposed use. The report shall show improvements required to: insure safe ingress to and egress from a proposed development; maintain adequate street capacity, and eliminate hazardous conditions. The report also will be used to determine whether the proposed development is consistent with transportation-related policies of the City of Northport. May 10, 2021 IV-35 416.02. Applicability. The City Engineer, particularly in the following cases, may require a transportation impact report:  A. Any development that proposes to take direct access to any collector or arterial road. B. Any residential development that proposes the construction of 30 or more dwelling units. C. Any use that will generate in excess of either 100 trips per acre per day or 250 trips per day. Trip generation rates for proposed uses shall be determined by consulting the latest edition of Trip Generation published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers, and/or the City Engineer. 416.03. Contents of transportation impact report. The transportation impact report shall contain, as a minimum, the following data and information:  A. General site description. A detailed description of the highway network within one (1) mile of the site, a description of the proposed land uses, the anticipated stages of construction, and the anticipated completion date of the proposed land development shall be provided. This description, which may be in the form of a map, shall include the following items: (a) all major intersections, (b) all proposed and existing ingress and egress locations, (c) all existing roadway widths and rights-of-way, (d) all existing traffic signals and traffic-control devices. In addition, any changes to the highway network within one-half (1/2) mile of the site, proposed by any governmental agency, shall be described. This description shall include the above items, as well as any proposed construction project that would alter the width and/or alignment of the present highway. Such information can be obtained from the City Engineer, County Engineer and Office of the Division Engineer, Alabama Department of Transportation. B. Description of existing traffic conditions. A report based on the following shall be provided: A 24-hour traffic count shall be conducted for a period of five (5) weekdays (Monday – Friday) on all roadways that have direct access to a proposed development site. The existing average daily traffic (ADT) volume and the highest average peak hour volume for any weekday hour between 3 PM and 6 PM shall be recorded. These traffic volumes shall be averaged to determine the average hourly peak traffic volume for the five days Monday through Friday. C. Transportation impact of the development. The average weekday trip generation rates (trip ends) and the highest average hourly weekday trip generation rate between 7 AM and 9 AM and between3 PM and 6 PM for the proposed use shall be determined from the latest edition of Trip Generation published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers, or from figures provided by a qualified traffic  May 10, 2021 IV-36 engineer. A report shall be made detailing the nature and extent of the trip generation expected to result from the proposed development. D. Analysis of transportation impact. The projected total future peak hour traffic demand shall be calculated for all roads fronting on a proposed site and all major intersections within one-half (1/2) mile of the site. This demand shall consist of the anticipated traffic that will be generated by the proposed development, plus an assumed normal increase of traffic volume of one (1) percent per year, unless traffic-engineering studies indicate a different rate of change. An analysis shall be undertaken to determine if roadways and intersections will operate at the appropriate level of service following completion of the development given the future peak hour traffic that will be generated by the proposed development. 416.04. Traffic control devices. Whenever, as the result of additional traffic generated by a proposed development, it is determined that there is a need for a traffic signal, a regulatory sign, additional right-of-way or acceleration/deceleration lanes, the developer shall make such planned improvements a part of his development plans and shall propose a schedule to the Planning Commission for making such improvements Anticipated improvements required by future development, and the developer share in those improvements, are listed in the following paragraphs. A. Traffic signs. Include the normal stop, yield, caution, and street signs, but also may include special signs such as “watch for traffic entering”, “blind hill” and “pedestrian crossing”, may also be required. Such signs will be placed by the developer entirely at the developers’ expense. These signs shall be specified, installed, and maintained in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. B. Traffic signals. Include any and all lighted signals. Such installations will be placed at the direction of the agency having jurisdiction. This paragraph also applies to signalization and improvement of railroad crossings. Because of the timing of the actual installation of signals by authorized agencies, the developer will be required to post a bond guaranteeing the estimated cost of improvements covered by this paragraph. Section 417. Clear View of Intersection Streets. To provide a clear view of intersection streets to the motorist, there shall be a triangular area of clear vision formed by the two intersecting streets. The size of this triangular area is a function of traffic volume and speed and is depicted for right-angle intersections in Figure 8. At oblique intersections, in which two roads form an angle of 60 degrees or less, required clear areas shall be determined by the City Engineer, based on design criteria set forth in the most recent edition of A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, prepared by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO). May 10, 2021 IV-37 Where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, there are unusual and/or specific circumstances relating to a street intersection such that the application of Figure 8 may not be appropriate, the intersection shall be referred to the City Engineer who shall recommend a triangular area of clear vision using the standards contained in the current edition of the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices. On any portion of a lot that lies within the triangular area defined according to this section, nothing shall be erected, planted, placed, or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially to impede vision between a height of two and one half (2.5) feet and ten (10) feet above the grade at the intersection of the street center lines. Section 418. Traffic Management. 418.01. Curb Cuts. Because frequent curb cuts and driveways providing access to numerous adjoining properties are a severe impediment to the proper functioning of major streets, on-site circulation and cross- access agreements between lots are required, to control the problem when land is subdivided. There shall be a minimum spacing of 300 feet for driveways and other curb cuts on arterial streets and 300 feet on collector streets. In areas where single-family detached homes abut collector streets, an average distance of 125 feet shall be allowed between curb cuts. New single-family residential lots shall not be allowed direct access to collector and arterial roadways without approval of the City Engineer. The following table summarizes required distances between curb cuts and street corner property lines:  Development Type Street Type (all districts except Downtown/Riverfront area) Arterial Collector Local Non-Residential 125’ 100’ 100’ Multiple Unit Development per §603.02(e) 125’ 100’ 100’ All Other Residential 125’ 100’ 25’   Where an intersection contains a left-turn stacking lane, any driveway opposite such lane shall be designed to permit entrance and exit by right turn only. Such "right turn" entrances shall be constructed with raised islands to prevent left-turn movements. No left turns shall be permitted where such turning motions would cross an acceleration or deceleration lane in proximity to an intersection. May 10, 2021 IV-38 Required distances between curb cuts and between curb cuts and street corner property lines shall be measured from the edge of the curb cut. 418.02. Access For Lots of Record and Redevelopment. In the interest of public safety, lots of record, as defined by this Ordinance, shall be afforded vehicular access at the direction of the City Engineer and in accordance with the MUTCD. This access may take the form of a curb cut, or shared curb cut, directly onto a public right-of-way or may be limited to cross-access via an adjoining lot (see Section 420.04). The City reserves the right to adopt access plans for thoroughfares in rapidly redeveloping areas in order to facilitate traffic management and public safety. The Planning Commission and City Council shall approve such plans. 418.03. Acceleration/Deceleration Lanes. Acceleration/deceleration lanes shall be provided by the developer at the direction of the City Engineer. Such improvements must be designed and constructed to city, county or state standards. The cost of such improvements will be borne entirely by the developer. 418.04. Cross-Access Requirements. Adjoining lots with frontage upon collector or arterial roads may be required to provide cross- access and permanent ingress/egress easements to adjacent properties in the interest of accommodating the curb-cut requirements, public safety and facilitating vehicular traffic. Such access shall be required at the discretion of the City Engineer. 418.05. Median Cuts. Center medians are designed and constructed both for traffic safety and aesthetic considerations. Such public improvements are constructed at great expense to the public and, therefore, any alteration of the existing or planned roadway medians shall be allowed solely at the discretion of the City Council, and/or ALDOT; and only where such alteration is in the interest of public safety. Where such alterations are allowed, the entire cost shall be borne by the applicant. The improvement of other medians or similar traffic control devices in proximity to the proposed development may be required in consideration for any allowed median alteration. 418.06. Additional Right-of-way. Additional right-of-way required by a specific governmental plan for the improvement of a given existing or proposed roadway shall, where possible, be divided equally between adjoining property owners on both sides of the existing roadway, and shall be dedicated to the City. Said right-of-way may be required at the time of subdivision or site plan review. May 10, 2021 V-1 ARTICLE V.  LANDSCAPE AND BUFFER REQUIREMENTS  Section 500. Introduction. This article recognizes the importance of trees and landscaping throughout the city and their relationship with the economic, ecological and cultural processes that give Northport its tradition and identity. Through preservation, replacement, and maintenance of the urban forest, this ordinance will provide a better quality of life for the citizens of Northport. Urban landscaping aids in preventing soil erosion, siltation of streams and reservoirs and flood damage. Trees are essential in providing shade and natural cooling, preventing air and noise pollution, as well as preserving community character. 501. Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to:  • protect the public health, safety and welfare by mitigating incompatibility between adjacent uses through the establishment of buffers between non- compatible land uses;  • improve the quality of life for Northport citizens through the reduction of noise, glare, heat and air pollution;  • preserve, protect and maintain the healthy existing vegetation and encourage, where possible, the incorporation of native plant materials and ecosystems into landscape design and discourage the proliferation of invasive plant species;  • establish and maintain sustainable amounts of tree canopy on public and private lands in the City;  • improve community character by encouraging aesthetically pleasing sustainable design practices, while allowing innovative, diverse and cost conscious approaches for design, installation and maintenance of landscaping;  • promote the conservation of local waterways and aquifers by encouraging the planting of native species, or site specific species;  • provide means for natural aquifer recharge and prevent excess runoff through the provision of landscaping and bufferyards;  • facilitate compliance with Local, State and Federal legislation relative to water and air quality, including, but not limited to, the Clean Air Act (Title 42, Chapter  May 10, 2021 V-2 85 of the U.S. Code) and the Clean Water Act (Title 33, Chapter 26 of the U.S. Code). 502. Scope. This article does not contain all the regulations and requirements for development activities, design and construction for the City of Northport. Approval of a landscape plan pursuant to the provisions herein does not serve as a substitute for obtaining and complying with all other applicable city ordinances, regulations, building and other related codes, zoning restrictions, subdivision and other applicable regulations. The provisions of this ordinance shall have applicability to all site and land development projects and development activities within the corporate limits of the City, including the development of subdivisions (but not individual lots within subdivisions). 503. Applicability. This ordinance shall apply to all land located within the Corporate Limits of the City of Northport, Alabama as well as land to be annexed if developed prior to annexation. (1) The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all new construction, redevelopment, or change of use for any multifamily residential, commercial, or industrial use and shall become applicable to any property for which any land development permit is required. The requirements shall remain applicable at all times once land has become subject to these provisions. (2) All development for which this ordinance is applicable shall provide a detailed landscape plan along with all other required submission materials. Prior to any development on any property in the City, the developer or person in charge or control thereof shall make application to the Department of Planning and have a landscape plan approved as part of the overall development approval process. A landscape plan must be submitted, along with the Land Development Plan, and approved by the Director of Planning or his/her designee prior to the issuance of any land development permits, (i.e. zoning certificate, building permit, etc.) The Land Development Plan shall be in conformance with Section 1002 of this Ordinance and, in accordance with the provision of this ordinance, shall adequately and sufficiently address traffic, parking, stormwater, sanitary sewer, erosion, use of BMPs, etc. If setbacks are requested to be reduced as provided through a special exception, alternative landscape designs that accomplish the intent of this ordinance must be approved by the Planning Director. May 10, 2021 V-3  504. Definitions. The following definitions are provided for clarification of terms used in Article V. Application: A form provided by and submitted to the Department of Planning by a developer desiring a landscape plan to engage in development as herein defined. Applicant: A developer as herein defined, including applicant or developer’s representative, who is applying for approval of a landscape plan. Bioswale: Vegetated surfaces that are designed to treat sheet flow from adjacent surfaces. Bioswales function by slowing runoff velocities and filtering out sediment and other pollutants, and by providing some infiltration into underlying soils. Buffer: An area of land, including landscaping, berms, walls, fences and building setbacks, or any combination thereof, that is located between land uses of different character and is intended to mitigate negative impacts of the more intense use on a residential or vacant parcel. Caliper: The American Association of Nurserymen standard for trunk measurement of nursery stock, as measured at six inches above the ground for trees up to and including four-inch caliper size, and as measured at 12 inches above the ground for larger sizes. Canopy Trees: See Tree City: The City of Northport, Alabama, whose address is 3500 McFarland Boulevard, Northport, Alabama 35476. Critical Root Zone: An area on the ground around a tree that is within the drip line of a tree. DBH (diameter at breast height): refers to the diameter of a tree four and one-half feet above ground level. Developer. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other legal entity engaged in or seeking to engage in development activity as herein defined. Development: For the purposes of this article only, any manmade or earth change to property including, but not limited to, preparation of land for the construction of buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, regarding, paving, clearing, excavating, or drilling operations. This definition also includes changes or improvements to any property subject to these regulations such as curb and gutter, storm drainage structures, streets, drainage facilities, sidewalks, and related public or private roads and the installation of utilities. May 10, 2021 V-4  Director: refers to the Director of Planning and/or his/her designee. Drip Line: A vertical line extending downward from the outermost tips of the tree branches to the ground. Erosion: The wearing away of land by the action of wind, water, gravity or a combination thereof. Evapotranspiration: loss of water from the soil both by evaporation and by transpiration from the plants growing thereon. Grading: Altering the shape of the ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling & shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition. Hedge: A row of closely planted shrubs, bushes or any kind of plant forming a boundary or fence. Land Development Permit or Permit (LDP): A written document which authorizes development in accordance with the provisions in this article and subject to any additional or specific requirements that may be stated therein. Land Development Plan or Plan: A properly documented written plan, prepared, signed and stamped by a registered professional engineer, licensed in the state, consisting of a completed application with supporting documents demonstrating that development as herein defined will occur upon an identified parcel of land within the area in compliance with all provisions of the City. Landscape Administrator: The staff member designated by the Planning Director to administer this article. Landscaping: Refers to the treatment of grade, groundcover, vegetation and ornamentation for a given area; including, but not limited to, plant materials such as trees, shrubs, groundcovers, perennials and annuals; and any other materials such as rocks, water, walls and fences; and any other feature affecting layout and use of the site. Lot—Parcel—Property: Refers to a single undivided portion of land that is either legally recorded in the office of the Tuscaloosa County Probate Judge, or is being proposed in good faith by well-prepared plan drawings for the purpose of being legally recorded. It is the responsibility of the property owner (or his/her agent) to insure that the property is legally recorded with the office of the Tuscaloosa County Probate Judge. Low Impact Development (LID): comprises a set of approaches and practices that are designed to reduce runoff of water and pollutants from the site at which they are generated by means of infiltration, evapotranspiration, and reuse of rainwater. LID  May 10, 2021 V-5 techniques manage water and water pollutants at the source and thereby prevent or reduce the impact of development on rivers, streams, lakes, coastal waters, and ground water. Parking Lot or Garage: An open area or a structure used exclusively for the temporary off-street storage of motor vehicles. Such area or structure may be an independent business or may be used in conjunction with any other business or commercial use. A fee may be charged. Parking space: a delineated area reserved for the parking of a single vehicle. Perimeter Planting Strip: Land area located within the boundary of a lot and required to be set aside and used for landscaping upon which only limited encroachments are authorized. Property Line: A line dividing one lot from another or from a street or any public or private space. Rain Garden: Vegetated surfaces that are designed to treat sheet flow from adjacent surfaces. Filter strips function by slowing runoff velocities and filtering out sediment and other pollutants, and by providing some infiltration into underlying soils. Redevelopment: The demolition and/or rebuilding or expansion of a site’s physical development. Right-of-way: A general term denoting public ownership or interest in land, usually in a strip which has been acquired for or devoted to the use of a street or alley. Runoff: The water from rain or melted snow that flows over the ground. Shrub: A low growing usually multi-stemmed, woody plant. Stormwater: The flow of water resulting from precipitation and occurring immediately following rainfall or a snowmelt. Street Trees: Any existing tree or any tree to be planted on the street right-of-way. Tree: A usually tall, woody plant, distinguished from a shrub by having comparatively greater height and, characteristically, defined as:  Canopy (Large Maturing) — Single trunk whose height is greater than 35 feet at maturity, or Understory (Small Maturing) — Single trunk or multi-stem whose height is less than 35 feet at maturity. Tree, Understory: See Tree  May 10, 2021 V-6  Utility Easement: A non-possessory interest given to or acquired by a utility, governmental agency, or private agency for the use of real property in the possession of another for a stated purpose such as locating utilities, including all types of pipelines, television cable, telephone and electric cables. Also includes corridors on public rights- of-way occupied by overhead utility lines. Vegetated: Any ground surface covered with plant life. Woodland: An area of natural vegetation or planted material, at least 50 feet in depth, covering one (1) acre or more and consisting substantially of canopy trees. May 10, 2021 V-7 505. Landscape Plan Submittal Requirements. 505.01. Approval. A landscape plan must be submitted and approved by the Planning Director and/or their designee prior to the issuance of a Land Development Permit or Building Permit. The architect, landscape architect, engineer, surveyor of record, horticulture professional, or landscape contractor shall certify that the landscape plan submitted meets the minimum landscape and bufferyard requirements of this article. 505.02. Format and materials. The landscaping plan and details shall be drawn to the same standard scale as the development plan or a scale which shows all landscaping accurately. Landscape plans shall be included as part of an application for a Land Development and/or Site Plan approval. All landscape plans must be reviewed and approved by the Director and/or their designee. 505.03. General information. Complete landscape plans submitted for review and approval shall include the following:  (1) Title block, showing the title of the development, name and address of the owner/developer, name and address of the person or firm preparing the plan, date of preparation, scale, north arrow, and the date of all revisions. (2) A location map, showing the relative location of the site to the nearest existing public street intersection. (3) The boundaries of the subject property including the location and description  of all adjoining property, the location and names of all adjoining streets and easements. If property is a part, or phase, of a larger development, the location/relationship to the overall development shall be indicated. (4) The required number of parking spaces and the proposed number of parking spaces of subject property/development. (5) Location and dimensions of all entrances and exits of the parking lot, the manner in which vehicles will be parked, all traffic circulation patterns, and the location and names of all utility lines, easements or right-of-ways on, or adjacent to, the site. (6) All details needed to communicate appearance, and methods of construction and/or installation. (7) A planting schedule, keyed to the plant materials shown on the landscape plan, listing all proposed plant materials by botanical name, common name,  May 10, 2021 V-8 cultivar or variety if any, quantity of materials, size of materials at planting, plant spacing, and existing trees approved for use. (8) Location of all existing and proposed buildings, accessory structures and paved areas. 506. General Requirements. 506.01. Site protection and general planting requirements. (1) Topsoil. To the extent needed and practical, topsoil moved during the course of construction shall be preserved and stockpiled for re-use on the site. (2) Existing trees. Preservation of each existing healthy tree of an approved species (See Table 5-1), within required landscape areas, may count toward fulfillment of these requirements. a. The existing tree to be preserved must be approved by the Planning Director and/or his/her designee to receive credit. b. Existing trees that are credited towards meeting the requirements of this section shall be subject to the same maintenance and replacement requirements as newly planted trees. c. Upon approval of the Planning Director and/or his/her designee an existing area of native vegetation meeting the definition of woodland, may be deemed to satisfy planting of a specific area or bufferyard required by this Ordinance regardless of the mix of plant materials otherwise required. d. Each existing tree that is credited towards meeting the requirements of this article may reduce the number of required parking spaces as specified in Section 511. (3) Slope plantings. Landscaping of all cuts and fills and/or terraces shall be matted or protected until plant cover is adequate to control erosion. (4) Utility Easements. Plantings within Utility Company Easements must comply with the following:  a. Minimum distances measured horizontally from mature trees to overhead utility lines shall be: Canopy Trees: 30 feet Understory Trees: 15 feet  May 10, 2021 V-9  b. The location and species of trees proposed for location in utility easements shall be approved before installation. c. Any part of a tree growing within 15 feet of an overhead utility line will require maintenance by a certified line trimmer approved by any affected utility companies. d. This article shall not be construed to impair:  1. the right of eminent domain granted by State laws to utilities, whether public or private, or  2. a utilities’ right to design, locate, erect, construct, re-construct, alter, protect or maintain utility poles, towers, lines, conduits, pipes or mains reasonably required in the public service or  3. a utilities’ right to exercise authority conferred by statute, franchise, certificate of convenience and necessity, license or easement. Maintenance, repair, and extension of any public and private utility lines or related infrastructure are expressly allowed. The preceding will apply to work done by the utility’s employees, agents and contractors doing work for the utility. e. Avoid planting trees and shrubs on underground utility easements. This is due to the fact that the root systems may damage or restrict the installed systems. (5) Plant Material Standards:  Canopy Trees: Shall have an average mature crown spread of at least 25 feet, be a minimum of eight feet in height and have a caliper of at least two inches at planting. Understory Trees: Shall have an average mature crown spread of at least 15 feet, be a minimum of five (5) feet in height and have a caliper of at least one and one-half inches at planting. Note: No more than 30% of plant material may consist of crepe myrtle. Shrubs: Shall be a minimum size of three gallon containers and of such species to obtain a height of 24 inches within two years. (6) Planting strips, buffers and planted islands are to be sodded, seeded, mulched or planted with shrubs or ground cover so as to leave no bare ground after landscape materials have been installed and permitted to grow for two years. Where mulch is used the area must be kept free of weeds. May 10, 2021 V-10  (7) Stormwater inlets shall be located within a perimeter planting strip and incorporate rain gardens, bioswales or other staff approved stormwater mitigation techniques to promote infiltration and reduce stormwater runoff and non-point source pollution. Rain Gardens shall include at least one (1) tree. Alternative designs that accomplish the intent of this ordinance may also be permitted subject to approval of the Planning Director. (8) Wherever a required bufferyard overlaps or coincides with a parking area as defined in this Section, the bufferyard shall take precedence; the required parking area planting shall be placed in another location. (9) The integration of Low Impact Development techniques as part of the landscape plan may be used to meet these requirements. 506.02. Trash Receptacles. (1) All commercial trash receptacles shall be placed on a pad approved by the City Engineer that allows for pick-up and maintenance as needed. (2) All commercial trash receptacles shall be enclosed with a fence or wall that is impervious to sight, at a minimum of six (6) feet tall, and is consistent with the architectural materials of the primary structure. (3) All screens will be completely enclosed with a latching gate. (4) Trash receptacle sites shall not be located within landscaped areas that are required by this article. 507. Redevelopment. Redevelopment of an existing built site which involves the complete removal of existing structures to allow for complete redevelopment shall be required to meet all requirement of this Section. In the event that the site itself is nonconforming by size or has other topographic constraints the Planning Director may authorize the utilization of the standards of Section 514 Alternative Compliance. When redevelopment involves the expansion of a site’s physical development the following increases in building size will trigger compliance with this Article:  Total Original Square Footage Proposed Expansion Less than 2,000 s.f. 25% or greater 2,000 – 5,000 s.f. 20% or greater 5,001 – 10,000 s.f. 15% or greater Over 10,000 s.f. 10% or greater  May 10, 2021 V-11 508. Landscaping Standards. It shall be the responsibility of the developer and/or property owner to select species from Table 5-1 which are appropriate to the locations in which they will be planted, and to maintain them so as to meet the intent of this Ordinance. All plant materials shall meet minimum standards of caliper, fullness of form, height, root ball and vigor as described by the American Association of Nurserymen standards published in the current edition of American Standards for Nursery Stock. 508.01. Frontage Landscape Standards. Except as required in Section 509, “Special Corridors”, street frontage buffers shall be, at a minimum, ten (10) feet in depth along all adjacent public rights-of-way. Frontage landscaping shall include a minimum of one (1) canopy tree, two (2) understory trees and six (6) shrubs per fifty (50) linear feet of the frontage, or faction thereof. Shrubs are optional in areas where a berm at least four (4) feet in height is used. Trees and shrubs shall be well distributed, though not necessarily evenly spaced. The following additional frontage landscaping standards shall apply: (See Figure 9)  a) lots with less than one hundred fifty (150) feet of frontage shall have a street frontage buffer depth of ten (10) feet; b) lots with one hundred fifty (150) to two hundred fifty (250) feet of frontage shall have a street frontage buffer depth of twenty (20) feet;  c) lots with over two hundred fifty (250) feet of frontage shall have a street frontage buffer depth of thirty (30) feet. For developments of two (2) or more acres with frontage of two hundred fifty (250) feet or more, the street frontage buffer shall be bermed in order to minimize the visual impact of the off-street parking area, unless the Director determines that the natural topography does not require the site to be bermed. The berm shall not have a slope of greater than one (1) foot of rise per three (3) feet of run, and shall not be less than four (4) feet in height at its apex. Landscape material for bermed street frontage buffers shall be in accordance with the requirements outlined above. Frontage landscaping within the site distance triangle at driveways and street intersections, shall have an area of visibility between the heights of two and one-half (2.5) feet and six (6) feet above the street grade to afford a clear line of sight in the interest of vehicular traffic safety. (See Figure 8 for sight distance triangle detail)  May 10, 2021 V-12 Foundation planting shall require as a landscaped bed with a minimum depth of seven (7) feet along the front of the primary structure. The bed shall contain understory trees and shrubs and may contain other greenery or seasonal color. Shrubs shall have a minimum height at planting of twenty-three (23) inches and a maximum spacing of four (4) feet. Understory trees shall be used as accent to shrubbery and may be placed in groups at corners and near building entrances. Landscaping shall be planted within a bed of mulch or ground cover other than turf grass, and be protected by some barrier from damage by vehicles and maintenance equipment. Greenery shall be well distributed through not necessarily evenly space. 508.02. Perimeter Landscape Standards. Perimeter landscaping must be provided within the property lines between the off-street parking area and adjoining properties. Planting areas existing in the public rights-of-way or on adjoining property shall not count toward the required perimeter landscaping area. Perimeter landscaping areas adjacent to adjoining properties shall be at least ten (10) feet in depth, excluding walkways, measured perpendicularly from the adjacent property to the back of curb, and shall contain the following plant material:  • One (1) canopy tree; three (3) understory trees; and four (4) shrubs per 100 linear feet of property, or fraction thereof. Should a commercial/industrial development abut a residential district, a higher perimeter landscaping criteria shall apply. The perimeter landscaping areas along the common property line shall have a twenty (20) foot landscaped buffer area consisting of the following:  • an eight foot (8’) fence with landscaping consisting of 4 canopy trees; six understory trees and 10 shrubs per 100 linear feet of property line Or • a planted hedge creating a solid unbroken visual screen reaching eight (8) feet in height within two (2) years of planting  It is intended that this bufferyard be of sufficient density to afford protection to the residential district from the glare of lights, blowing paper, dust and debris, visual encroachment and effectively reduce the transmission of noise. (See Figure 10) The perimeter buffer area shall be maintained in clean and neat condition. Where topography provides a more effective buffer than the above described buffer, or where topography renders the above described buffer ineffective, the Landscape Administrator may:  A. Reduce the width of the required buffer by no more than fifty (50) percent, B. Reduce the width or waive the required undisturbed buffer,  May 10, 2021 V-13 C. Allow reforestation with native vegetation in lieu of all or a portion of the required planted buffer, D. Any combination of the above stated measures. 508.03. Interior/Parking Landscape Standards. Planted islands and/or peninsulas shall be provided for any off-street parking area of twenty (20) or more parking spaces (not including the areas of perimeter and foundation landscaping) with dimensions and arrangements as follow: (See Figure 11)  (1) Each island or peninsula, to count toward the total interior landscape requirements, shall be at least two hundred and fifty (250) square feet in area; however, the maximum contribution of any individual island or peninsula to the total interior landscaping requirement shall be five hundred (500) square feet. (2) Island and peninsulas, must be at least eight (8) feet in their least dimension, measured from back of curb to back of curb. (3) Islands and peninsulas in off-street parking areas shall be as uniformly distributed as practicable, to subdivide large expanses of parking areas, to regulate traffic flow, to protect pedestrians, and to permit access by emergency vehicles. When practicable, islands and/or peninsulas shall be placed at the end of rows of parking spaces or between the circulation drives and parking rows, to channel traffic safely around the parking areas and to demarcate parking rows. (4) The interior landscaped area shall contain at least an average of one (1) tree and four (4) shrubs per one hundred (100) square feet of landscaped area. Each island or peninsula shall contain at least one (1) tree. (5) There shall be no more than 10 contiguous parking spaces without a landscape island, or peninsula. (6) Excavation of parking lot islands. a. All parking lot islands, peninsulas, and planting areas shall be excavated to remove all crusher run or parking lot base material and back filled with quality top soil, except those areas where existing vegetation is to be preserved. The top soil shall be high in organic matter and will allow water to percolate. The excavation of these planting areas shall be to a minimum of 24” and will freely allow penetration of hand-held probe to a minimum of 24”. b. Inspection of these planting areas shall be conducted by engineering and resource protection inspectors during the construction process. May 10, 2021 V-14 Failure to comply with these requirements can result in a stop work order issued by the inspectors. 508.04. Foundation Planting Standards. Building foundations shall be required to have a landscaped bed with a minimum depth of seven (7) feet along the front of the primary structure. Beds shall contain both understory trees and shrubs and may also contain other greenery and seasonal color. There shall be a minimum of one (1) shrub for every four (4) feet of façade length with a minimum height at planting of twenty-three (23) inches. Understory trees shall be used as accents to shrubbery and may be placed in groups at corners and near building entrances. Landscaping shall be planted within a bed of mulch or ground cover other than turf grass, and be protected by some barrier, such as curbing or tire stops, from damage by vehicles and maintenance equipment. Plant material shall be well distributed throughout the bed, though not necessarily evenly space. Summary: Shrubs = 1 per 4’ of front façade and 23” in height at planting Understory = grouped at corners and entrances of building  509. Special Corridor Landscape & Design Standards. Recognizing the special nature of certain thoroughfares and the direct and indirect impacts of the appearance of these roadways and their importance to the local economy, this Section sets forth regulations that will help insure that development in these critical areas is visually pleasing and economically viable. This Section applies to all land in the corridor, regardless of the underlying zoning district designation, and supersedes base district zoning district regulations in the corridor unless the zoning district requirements are more stringent. In those cases, the base district regulations apply. Henceforth, as parcels are developed or redeveloped along designated corridors, the following bufferyard and landscape requirements shall apply. 509.01. Areas of Applicability. These regulations shall apply to all lots, parcels and tracts that have any frontage upon the following rights-of-way:  • McFarland Blvd (U.S. Highway 82) • Lurleen Wallace Blvd. • U.S. Highway 69 • U. S. Highway 43 • Rose Blvd. • Watermelon Road • Rice Mine Road • Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd. May 10, 2021 V-15 509.02. Submission Requirements. All design elements required by this Section shall be illustrated or described within the application materials prepared for the review of staff and the Planning Commission. Any submission made without such requirements shall be deemed incomplete. Incomplete submissions shall not be considered for inclusion on Planning Commission agendas. 509.03. Building Materials and Design Review. The Planning Commission shall review submissions for their general compatibility with existing conditions and public improvements according to the process for conditional uses outlined in Article X. A. Exterior Building Materials. All building cladding materials shall be described in the application or upon the site plan. Building facades and accessory buildings visible to pedestrian and vehicular traffic shall consist of natural materials such as wood, stone, and manufactured products such as brick, stucco, and architecturally decorative concrete block; other such materials may be approved after review by the Planning Commission. The use of bright or garish colors shall be prohibited on principle and accessory structures and fencing. All structural supports (i.e., columns) for vehicular canopies shall be clad in one or more of the same materials as the building facades. B. Sign Design. The location of freestanding signs shall be illustrated on the site plan. Sign materials shall be coordinated with the exterior cladding of the structures. Size and height of sign shall conform to the standards set out in Article VIII “Sign Regulations”. 509.04. Bufferyards, Setbacks & Landscaping. On all developments, the owner or developer must provide the required setback and the required buffer or minimum buffers described below, whichever is greater  A. Thoroughfare Frontage Bufferyard. A 15-foot bufferyard shall be installed along the entirety of thoroughfares listed in Section 509.01. This bufferyard shall contain three (3) canopy trees, ten (10) understory trees, and 15 shrubs per 100 feet of corridor frontage. B. General Right-of-Way Setback. All structures shall be at least 20 feet from the right-of-way line of those thoroughfares listed in Section 509.01. C. Garages, Car Washes and Service Bays. All garages, car washes or other service bays shall be located at least 40 feet from the front property line and all garage/car wash/service bay openings shall be oriented at not less than right angles to the primary public street frontage, or adequate, vegetative screening as outlined in this ordinance or determined by the Director, shall be provided to limit view from the public street. May 10, 2021 V-16 509.05. Fences and Screening. A. Lot areas within which repair of vehicles of any type occur shall be screened from public view. Storage areas of vehicles that are visibly damaged or under repair shall be similarly screened. B. Utility meters, air conditioners and other mechanical units shall not be located on any plane of the primary structure that faces a designated corridor and shall be screened from public view. C. No type of wire fabric fencing material shall be used forward of the front plane of the primary structure. Fences in the front yards shall not exceed four (4) feet in height. 509.06. Awnings and Canopies. Rigid or fixed awnings and canopies must be maintained and kept free from dirt, mildew and tears. Worn, faded or torn awnings and canopies shall be replaced. Awnings shall not be a continuous line across a building façade, but rather shall be broken or grouped to create visual interest. (See Figure 7)  509.07. Residential Development backing up to corridor roadways. To provide protection and privacy to residential developments backing up to Highway Corridors as defined above the following Corridor Screening shall be provided:  • An earth berm or bank at least four (4) feet high with a required base width of at least ten (10) feet and covered with an acceptable grass or landscape cover suitable to the slope used. • Berms shall meet the following standards: o The slope of all berms shall not exceed a three-to-one ratio (horizontal to vertical), shall have a top width at least one-half the berm height, and a maximum height of eight feet above the toe of the berm. o Berms exceeding four feet in height shall maintain a four-to-one ratio (horizontal to vertical). o Berms, regardless of size, shall be stabilized with a ground cover or other suitable vegetation. o Berms along street right-of-ways shall not be permitted within sight distances at intersections. o Berms shall in no case damage the roots or trunks of existing healthy vegetation designated to be preserved. AND  • A planting screen consisting of a minimum of two (2) staggered rows of evergreen shrubs such as, but not limited to, Ligustrum, Burford Holly, Elaegnus, Boxwood, or Juniper with a minimum height of three (3) feet installed and a maximum spacing suitable to the particular plant used but yet  May 10, 2021 V-17 forming an effective visual screen. This planted screen shall, at driveway and roadway intersections, met adequate sight distance requirements. Alternative forms of screening may be considered by the Planning Commission subject to detailed drawings supporting said alternative being provided at the time of submission. (See Figure 12)   Example: Berm separating residential development from major roadway  510. Conditional Uses. The Planning Commission and/or City Council, as part of Conditional Use Approval, may place additional requirements on a Site Development Plan, including but not limited to landscape requirements, above and beyond those specified in this article. 511. Off-Street Parking and Tree Preservation Credits. In order to encourage the preservation of existing trees and reduce the amount of impervious surface, the following off-street parking reduction may be utilized. A. Total parking requirements may be reduced by one space for each existing tree meeting the perimeter planting requirements that is preserved. B. The following criteria only apply to commercial parking lots and in no case shall the combination of all reductions in parking allowed by this Ordinance exceed the following reduction criteria:   May 10, 2021 V-18 10% for parking lots containing 1-74 spaces, 15 % for parking lots containing 75-125 spaces, or 20% for parking lots containing 126 or more spaces. 511.01. Protection of Preserved Trees during Construction Existing tree(s) shall only be credited where the following management standards are met:  A. During construction, the critical root zone of the tree(s) to be reserved shall be fenced and protected from compaction, trenching, harmful grade changes and/or other injury and be shown on an approved landscape plan. B. Pavement, building foundations or other impervious surfaces shall not encroach into the critical root zone, unless preservation practices are followed to insure exchange of oxygen, water and nutrients to the root system. Said preservation practices shall be provided in written and/or graphic form to the Planning and Engineering staff for review and approval. C. Sidewalks or other forms of hard surfaces that do not require soil compaction and are not intended for vehicular use may be located within the critical root zone only if preservation practices are followed to insure exchange of oxygen and water to the root system. Said preservation practices shall be provided in written and/or graphic form to the Planning and Engineering staff for review and approval. 512. Open Space Requirements for High Density Residential Developments. In an effort to provide for active and/or passive recreational activities, improve the quality of life for residents and increase property values and desirability of high density residential development, standards have been set out, here and elsewhere in this Ordinance, for the provision of open space in these developments. 512.01. Conventional Subdivisions. Conventional residential development, or phases of development, containing lots of 9,000 square feet or less shall have a minimum of twenty percent (20%) open space. (See Table 6-2) 512.02. Performance Residential Developments. Those developments recognized in Section 603.03 as performance residential and indicated as requiring platted open space shall provide a minimum of twenty percent (20%) open space unless otherwise approved as part of a Master Development Plan. 512.03. Open Space Requirements. See Section 415. May 10, 2021 V-19 513. Compliance. For any criteria for which this article applies, the architect, landscape architect, engineer, surveyor of record, horticulture professional, or landscape contractor must certify, to the Planning Director and/or his/her designee, that the landscaping has been installed to meet the minimum requirements of this article. The site will be inspected before a final certificate of occupancy will be issued. In the event that inclement weather delays the installation of landscape materials by less than thirty (30) days, the developer may make a written request to the Planning Director for an extension to the time of completion for the planting schedule in the approved landscape plan.. The request must specifically state the reason for the delay as well as an estimated date for completion. Failure to complete the installation within 15 days of specified date will constitute non-compliance. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any new development that has not met the requirements of this article or an approved landscaping plan. Additions or renovations to existing parking areas shall also receive a certificate of occupancy prior to usage. When circumstances preclude immediate planting, the administrator may release the development for a certificate of occupancy after:  A. The owner or developer has completed all curbing, irrigation systems and other non-planting components of the landscaping plan; and  B. Posted a completion bond or certified check in an amount equal to one hundred twenty-five (125) percent of the total cost, including labor, of the remaining landscaping installation. Required surety shall be made payable to the City of Northport and submitted to the Planning Director or City Engineer. The Director or Engineer shall set the time limit for completion and approval of any guaranteed landscaping, but in no case shall the time period exceed six (6) months after the date the certificate of occupancy is issued. 514. Alternative Compliance. A. Intent. The Landscape Requirements are intended to encourage development practices which are conscious of the character of the City and its ecological processes. Conditions associated with individual sites may under certain circumstances warrant approval of alternative methods of compliance. Conditions may arise where normal compliance is impractical or impossible, or where maximum achievement of the Purpose and Intent of this Article can only be obtained through alternative compliance. It is not the intent of this section to allow alternative compliance on the basis of economic hardship. In the event that such conditions are present, the Planning Director and/or his/her designee shall have authority to adjust the requirements of this article as provided below in accordance with the following:  May 10, 2021 V-20 (1) Request for Alternative Compliance Review. Requests for alternative compliance must be made in writing at the time of application and may be granted for any permit application to which the Landscape Requirements apply, when one or more of the following conditions are met:  (a) Improved environmental quality would result from alternative compliance. (b) Topography, soil, vegetation, drainage or other site conditions are such that full compliance is impractical. (c) Spatial Limitations, unusual shaped pieces of land, or unusual servitude requirements may justify alternative compliance. (d) Public safety considerations make alternative compliance appropriate. (e) Public Improvement (i.e. streets, water, sewer, etc.) projects make alternative compliance appropriate. (f) The site is part of a development for which a master plan has been submitted which makes adequate provision for landscaping. The above conditions must be substantiated as part of the written request for Alternative Compliance. (2) Methods of Alternative Compliance. (a) Reduction in the amount, or variation in types, of required landscaping (b) Reduction of buffer widths. (c) Modification of required structures (i.e. fences, walls, berms, etc.) (d) Modification in configuration or amount of required parking to accommodate landscaped islands In all instances, at the discretion of the Planning Director, such requests for alternative compliance may be referred to the Planning Commission for review and approval. 515. Landscaping Requirements for Downtown & Riverfront Areas. Within the area encompassed by the Northport, Alabama Downtown & Riverfront Plan, all peripheral and internal landscaping shall meet those requirements setout in the Northport Core City Zoning and Design Standards. (See Article VIII) Additionally, unless otherwise specified in said plan, streetscapes shall be developed along Main  May 10, 2021 V-21 Avenue and 1st Street to mimic those already present along Main Avenue in these districts. 516. Ownership & Maintenance. The owner of property developed in accordance with an approved landscape plan shall be responsible for maintaining all landscaping in good condition. The maintenance required under this section shall include the prompt replacement of all dead or damaged landscaping materials, whether from natural or unnatural causes, so as to insure continued compliance with the requirements of this ordinance. All landscape and bufferyard materials shall be maintained by the owner of such materials so that the purpose and effect of the landscaping and bufferyards is not diminished. The following minimum maintenance activities are required:  A. Replacement of plant materials destroyed by any cause. In the case of any canopy tree removed or otherwise destroyed by the willful act of the property owner, tenant or contractor, a tree of the same or larger caliper must be used as a replacement. Where replacement at the same or larger caliper is not feasible, the Planning Director may provide alternative replacement criteria. B. Repair and/or replacement of fences and walls that deteriorate or are damaged by any cause. C. Restoration of berms that are altered by erosion, construction, or other causes. D. Irrigation of landscape materials is strongly recommended, particularly for larger development sites. Landscaping lost due to lack of rainfall or irrigation shall be required to be replaced by the property owner. Bufferyards constitute an integral part of a development site, and may not be subdivided, sold, dedicated, or otherwise conveyed separately from the development site of which they are a part. The City shall not approve any development plan in which a required bufferyard or any portion of a required bufferyard lies on land, which is not part of the development site. 517. Legal aspects, other Regulations. All local, state and federal laws and regulations shall be considered when interpreting provisions of, or technical specifications published pursuant to, this article. In each instance, the more restrictive requirement shall govern unless sound engineering judgment can determine and prove that the more restrictive requirement would be  May 10, 2021 V-22 otherwise unnecessary, In most instances, laws and regulations that are phrased more explicitly shall apply over those items that are not phrased as precisely. Nothing herein contained shall authorize a person to engage in development or earth changes in a manner inconsistent with current zoning or subdivision regulations or other applicable codes or ordinances. All development or earth changing activity shall be in conformity with current zoning or subdivision regulations and all other applicable codes or ordinances. A landscape plan does not authorize any person or developer to engage in any activity that would violate any other applicable code, ordinance, regulation or state or federal laws nor substitute for obtaining any licenses or permits otherwise required. 518. Penalty for Violation. Failure to comply with the requirements of this Article shall be deemed a violation of the Ordinance and subject to penalties as set out in Section 1110 of this Ordinance. Violators will be given written notice of the violation and permitted 15 days to correct the violation before a citation is issued. Thereafter, each day shall be considered a separate offense and shall be punishable by the maximum fine established by the City Council of Northport. May 10, 2021 V-23 Table 5-1: Approved Tree List Trees contained in the following list are preapproved for use and meet the requirements of this article. Any tree which is not on this list may be submitted for approval to the Planning Director and/or his/her designee, prior to the approval of a Land Development Permit. Tree which exhibit poor health characteristics, are not native to the climate range in Northport or are considered invasive will not be approved for installation. Scientific Name Common Name  CANOPY TREES:  Acer rubrum Red Maple Acer saccharum Sugar Maple Acer freemanii ‘Autumn Blaze’ Acer x freemanii Freeman Maple Betula nigra River Birch Carpinus caroliniana American Hornbeam Carya ssp. Hickory Cedrus deodora Deodor Cedar Celtis laevigata Sugarberry Celtis occidentalis Hackberry Cornus x ‘Rutican’ Constellation Dogwood Cryptomeria japonica Japanese Cedar Fagus grandifolia American Beech Fraxinus americana White Ash Fraxinus pennsylvanica Green Ash Ginkgo biloba Ginkgo; Maidenhair Liquidambar styraciflua ‘Rotundaloba’ Fruitless Sweetgum Liriodendron tulipifera Tulip Tree; Tulip Poplar; Yellow Poplar Magnolia grandiflora Southern Magnolia Metasequoia glyptostroboides Dawn Redwood Nyssa sylvatica Black Tupelo (Black Gum, Sour Gum) Ostrya virginiana Hophornbeam Pinus elliotii Slash Pine Pinus glabra Spruce Pine; Walter’s Pine Pinus palustris Longleaf Pine Pinus taeda Loblolly Pine Pinus virginiana Virginia Pine Pistacia chinensis Chinese Pistache Platanus occidentalis Sycamore Quercus spp. Oak Tree Salix babylonica Weeping Willow Sequoia sempervirens Redwood Taxodium distichum Bald Cypress Tsuga candensis Eastern Hemlock; Canadian Hemlock   May 10, 2021 V-24 CANOPY TREES: (cont.) Ulmus alata Winged Elm Ulmus parvifolia Chinese Elm; Lace Bark Elm Zelkova serrata Japanese Zelkova  UNDERSTORY TREES:  Acer barbatum Florida Maple Acer buergeranum Trident Maple Acer palmatum Japanese Maple Amalanchier x ‘Autumn Brilliance’ Autumn Brilliance Serviceberry Cercis canadensis Eastern Redbud Cornus florida Flowering Dogwood Cornus kousa Kousa Dogwood Crataegus phaenopyrum Washington Hawthorn Ilex latifolia Lusterleaf Holly Ilex x attenuate fosteri Foster Holly Ilex x ‘Emily Bruner’ Emily Bruner Holly Ilex x ‘Nellie R. Stevens’ Nellie R. Stevens Holly Ilex x attenuate ‘Savannah’ Savannah Holly Ilex x attenuate ‘East Palatka” East Palatka Holly Ilex verticillata Winterberry; Holly; Black Alder Juniperus virginiana Eastern Red Cedar Juniperus virginiana ‘Idylwild’ Idylwild Juniper Lagerstroemia indica Crape Myrtle Magnolia grandiflora  ‘Claudia Wannamaker’ Claudia Wannamaker Magnolia Magnolia grandiflora  ‘Bracken’s Brown Beauty Bracken’s Brown Beauty Magnolia Magnolia grandiflora ‘Little Gem’ Little Gem Magnolia Magnolia grandiflora ‘D.D. Blanchard D.D. Blanchard Magnolia Magnolia grandiflora “Margaret Davis” Margaret Davis Magnolia Magnolia stellata Star Magnolia Magnolia x soulangiana Saucer Magnolia Magnolia virginiana Sweet Bay Magnolia Malus spp. Crabapple Myrica cerifera Southern Wax Myrtle Osmanthus fortunei Fortune’s Osmanthus Osmanthus fragrans Tea Olive Oxydendrum arboreum Sourwood; Lily of the valley tree; Sorrell tree Prunus serrulata Japanese Flowering Cherry Prunus subhirtella Higan Cherry Prunus x yedoensis Yoshino Cherry Thuja occidentalis Eastern White Cedar Vitex agnus-castus Lilac Chaste Tree   May 10, 2021 V-25 DECIDUOUS SHRUBS:  Abelia x grandiflora Glossy Abelia Aesculus parviflora Bottlebrush Buckeye Berberis thunbergii atropurpurea ‘Crimson Pygmy’ Crimson Pygmy Barberry Buddleia davidii Butterfly-Bush Chaenomeles speciosa Common flowering quince Cotinus coggygria Common Smokebush Euonymus alatus compactus Burning Bush; winged euonymus Exochorda racemosa Pearlbush Forsythia xintermedia Border Forsythia Hibiscus syriacus Shrub althea; Rose of Sharon Hydrangea macrophylla Big Leaf Hydrangea Hydrangea quercifolia Oakleaf Hydrangea Jasminum floridum Showy Jasmine Jasminum nudiflorum Winter Jasmine Kerria japonica Japanese kerria Kolkwitzia amabilis Beautybush Lagerstroemia indica/fairiei Crape Myrtle Magnolia stellata Star Magnolia Spiraea x bumalda ‘Anthony Waterer’ Anthony Waterer Bumalda Spirea Spiraea cantoniensis Reeves Spirea; Double Reeves Spirea Spiraea prunifolia Double Bridalwreath Spirea Spiraea thunbergii Thunberg Spirea Spiraea x vanhouttei Vanhoutte Spirea Viburnum x burkwoodi Burkwood Viburnum Viburnum carlesii Korean Spicebush Viburnum dentatum Arrowwood viburnum; Southern arrowwood Viburnum prunifolium Blackhaw Viburnum Viburnum plicatum Japanese Snowball Viburnum plicatum var. tomentosum Doublefile viburnum Vitex agnus-castus Lilac Chastetree Weigela florida Old Fashioned Weigela  EVERGREEN SHRUBS:  Berberis sargentiana Sargent Barberry Berberis julianae Wintergreen Barberry Buxus microphylla japonica Japanese Boxwood Buxus microphylla koreana Korean Boxwood Buxus microphylla cultivars Wintergreen boxwood Eaeagwus ebbengai Ebbengei elaeagnus Elaeagnus pungens reflexa Bronze Eaeagnus Ilex x ‘Nellie R. Stevens’ Nellie R. Stevens Holly Ilex x aquipernyi Brillian Holly Ilex x attenuate ‘Savannah’ Savannah Holly  May 10, 2021 V-26 EVERGREEN SHRUBS: (cont.) Ilex attenuate ‘Fosteri’ Foster Holly Ilex cassine Dahoon Ilex cornuta ‘Burfordii’ Burford Chinese Holly Ilex cornuta ‘Carissa’ Carissa Holly Ilex cornuta ‘Needlepoint’ Needlepoint Holly Ilex cornuta ‘Rotunda’ Rotunda Chinese Holly; Dwarfed horned holly Ilex cornuta ‘Burfordii Nana’ Dwarf Burford Holly Ilex crenata ‘Hetzii’ Hetz Japanese Holly Ilex crenata ‘Rotundifolia’ Roundleaf Japanese Holly Ilex crenata ‘Helleri’ Heller Japanese Holly Ilex crenata ‘Compacta’ Compacta Japanese Holly Ilex crenata ‘Convexa’ Convexleaf Japanese Holly Ilex glabra Inkberry Ilex latifolia Lusterleaf Holly Ilex vomitoria Yaupon Holly Ilex vomitoria ‘Pendula’ Weeping Yaupon Ilex vomitoria “nana’ Dwarf Youpon Holly Illicium parviflorum Small Anise-tree Juniperus chinensis spp. Juniper Juniperus conferta ‘Blue Pacific’ Shore Juniper; Blue Pacific Juniper Juniperus horizontalis ‘Bar Harbor’ Bar Harbor Juniper Juniperus horizontalis ‘;Plumosa compacta’ Andorra juniper Juniperus horizontalis ‘Wiltoni’ Blue Rug Juniper Juniperus parsoni Parsons Juniper Leucothoe populiforia Rainbow Leucothoe Ligustrum japonicum Japanese Privet Ligustrum japonicum ‘Rotundifolium’ Curlyleaf Ligustrum Lonicera fragrantissima Winter Honeysuckle Mahonia bealei Leatherleaf Mahonia Michelia figo Banana Shrub Myrica cerifera Southern Waxmyrtle Nandina domestica Nandina Osmanthus heterophyllus Holly Osmanthus; Holly Tea Olive; False Holly Osmanthus x fortunei Fortunes Osmanthus/Tea Olive   March 21, 2018 VI-1 ARTICLE VI. DETAILED USE REGULATIONS  Section 600. Purpose. The purpose of this Article is to specify the detailed regulations, including bulk, layout, setbacks and lot area, which apply to specific land uses. Standards over and above those imposed by other sections of this Ordinance are necessary for certain land uses which, although permitted as of right in certain districts, have characteristics that might have negative impacts on nearby uses without these additional regulations. This Article also specifies the regulations applicable to temporary and accessory uses, and it details the off-street parking and loading requirements of permitted land uses. Section 601. Standards Applicable to Certain Uses. In addition to compliance with other regulations imposed by this Ordinance, the following standards are required of the specific uses enumerated below. 601.01. Renovation, Adaptive Reuse, and Preservation of Structures. Because there may be value to the community in the renovation, reuse and preservation of structures, and because these actions serve the public interest, renovation, reuse, and preservation of structures are encouraged in all zoning districts. A. In addition to a site plan required pursuant to Section 1002, each proposed renovation, reuse or preservation of an existing structure shall include a floor plan showing the internal use of the structure. B. It is anticipated that the renovation, reuse, and preservation of existing structures will involve difficulties with maximum densities in some zoning districts, bufferyard requirements and off-street parking. Where these conditions occur, the Planning Director may impose such standards as fencing, screening, and planting as he/she deems appropriate to buffer existing adjacent properties. The Planning Director shall, in the case of higher densities and off-street parking, make such recommendations to the Planning Commission as he/she deems reasonable in supporting the concepts of renovation, reuse, and preservation of structures in the City of Northport. 601.02. Exceptions to Minimum Yard Requirements. The following structures shall be allowed to project into or be constructed in any minimum required yard as follows:  • awnings and canopies, roof overhangs and balconies not to exceed three (3) feet; • bay windows, not to exceed two (2) feet; • clotheslines; driveways and their curbs, fences, walls, and hedges may be constructed in minimum yard areas, provided that their installation does not violate any other provision of this Ordinance. March 21, 2018 VI-2 • Uncovered decks of no more than 30 inches in height may extend to within five (5) feet of the property line. Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to allow encroachment of any feature into a required bufferyard. 601.03. Voluntary Dedication of Property for a Public Purpose. No existing lot shall be reduced in area or dimension below the minimum requirements applicable to such lot under the provisions of this Ordinance, except that when a lot is reduced in dimension or total area by 20 percent or less by the voluntary dedication by the owner and acceptance of a portion of such lot by the City for a public use, the lot shall be considered to contain the dimensions and area it contained prior to such dedication. However, for purposes of measuring compliance with setback requirements of this Code, the dimensions and area of such lot as it exists after the voluntary dedication shall apply. 601.04. Limitations on Animals. – See Chapter 14 of the City of Northport, Alabama Code of Ordinances. 601.05. Moving of Buildings. No structure shall be moved from one development site to another unless such structure shall, at the new location, comply with all applicable provisions of this Ordinance. 602. Broadcast/TV/Radio and Telecommunication Tower Use Regulations. Except where otherwise stated herein, the following standards shall apply to all types of broadcast and communication towers within the City of Northport. A. General Regulations and Requirements. All requirements for site plan approval, as set out in Article X, shall be met at the time of application for site of new towers. B. Safety/Structural Design of Towers. All broadcast towers must comply with requirements as set out in the latest edition of the EIA-222 code “Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures,” as amended, published by the Electronic Industries Association and all other applicable structural safety standards, building and technical codes having jurisdiction, so as not to endanger the health and safety of residents, employees or travelers in the event of structural failure of the tower due to extreme weather conditions or other acts of God. C. Security. A chain link fence shall be installed around the perimeter of the compound, with a minimum height of eight (8) feet as measured to the top of the fence (or barbed wire, if applicable). Such fence is to be located on the perimeter of the compound unless otherwise approved as part of the site plan submitted with the application of site plan approval. Guy anchors may be fenced separately from the main compound. Climbing pegs shall be removed from the lower 20 feet of all broadcast towers. March 21, 2018 VI-3 D. Lighting Restrictions. There shall be no lighting on any tower except when required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or Federal Communications Commission (FCC). In cases where the FAA or FCC does require a tower to be lighted, any such lighting shall be the minimum necessary to comply with federal regulations. Written documentation of any FAA or FCC directives to light a tower differently than provided herein must be submitted with the site plan application. Any security lighting used at the facility shall be of low intensity, shall not be directed or reflected away from the site, and must not illuminate any portion of the site higher than ten (10) feet. E. Maintenance. The owner of a broadcast tower shall be responsible for maintaining the structural integrity, safety, appearance, screening, buffers, security and other installations required by this Section, and by any other applicable codes, ordinances, regulations, statutes or conditions of approval imposed by the City of Northport or its authorized representatives, in perpetuity for as long as said tower remains on a site. F. Landscaping. Broadcast towers constructed in conjunction with a principal structure (i.e. radio/TV station) shall comply with all bufferyard and landscape requirements as set out in Article V.  G. Abandoned Facilities. Any broadcast facility that ceases to be used for its original communications purpose shall be removed at the owner’s expense. The owner of the facility shall provide the Planning Director with a copy of the notice to the FCC of the intent to cease operations, and shall have 120 days from the date of such ceasing to remove the obsolete tower and all accessory structures and to restore the site to its natural condition. In the case of multiple providers sharing use of a single tower, notice will still be required from each provider as to their cessation of operations, and such provider will be required to remove its facilities within the one hundred and twenty (120) day period prescribed above. At such time as all providers sharing use of a tower cease operation of their facilities located thereon, the owner of the tower shall complete the removal and restoration process as set forth herein. H. Area and Dimensional Requirements. The following area and dimensional regulations shall apply to all facilities covered by this Section:     1. Minimum Lot Area: Determined by setback requirement. 2. Minimum Setbacks: Each tower shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to 50 percent of its height (when site is a leased portion of a larger parcel, setbacks shall be measured from the property lines, not the leased site). Maintenance/equipment buildings must meet the setback requirements as specified for the zoning district in which they are to be constructed. March 21, 2018 VI-4 3. All buildings, structures, facilities and accessories associated with the proposed tower are to be wholly contained within the required security fence. Guy anchors may be fenced separately from the main compound. 4. Bufferyard Requirements: See Article V  I. Height and Location Restrictions. In regard to the height and sitting of all broadcast facilities and their associated structures the following regulations shall be observed:  1. No broadcast tower site boundary shall be located closer than 200 feet to any residence. 2. No tower shall be located less than a distance equal to its height, as measured from the base of the tower, from any Residential (RS) District zoning boundary. Any new towers so located shall further be restricted to a monopole or self- supporting design. 3. No tower shall exceed a height of 300 feet. 4. Where such facility is constructed in conjunction with a principal structure it shall be sited behind the front plane of said structure. Property located in the Agricultural District (AG) shall be exempt from this provision. 602.01. Telecommunications Towers. In addition to the standards set out in Section 602 above; the following standards shall apply specifically to telecommunication towers. A. Application and Justification. All requirements for site plan approval, as set out in Article X, “Development Approval Process”, shall be met at the time of application for siting of new telecommunications towers. In addition to meeting the general requirements for site plan approval, the following information shall be provided when applying for approval of a communication tower:  1. A current U.S.G.S. quadrangle map (1:24,000), or equivalent, showing the proposed site location and at least a two (2)-mile radius around the site;  2. A scaled elevation diagram of the facility, showing the type, height, finish, lighting, site improvements and other such details as necessary to convey an image of the facility at the proposed location;  3. A study prepared by a radio frequency specialist that includes a mapped coverage analysis of the proposed facility and its relationship to the next nearest adjacent cell(s) and an inventory and evaluation of existing towers, alternative sites and available structural facilities (e.g. buildings, billboards, water towers, or  March 21, 2018 VI-5 other structures that could be used for support in lieu of a new tower) considered within a two (2)-mile radius of the proposed location. 4. An inventory of all the provider’s existing telecommunications towers and communications antenna sites in Tuscaloosa County (including those located in municipalities within Tuscaloosa County). This inventory must include:  a) The location, parcel identification number, and ownership of the telecommunications tower. b) Name of co-locators. c) Height of tower. d) Type of tower or nature of other structure where antenna is located. e) Name of Wireless Communication Service Provider co-location coordinator. f) Copy of Wireless Communication Service Provider’s FCC license. In the event such inventory has already been provided, each successive application must include an update such that said inventory will be completely current and accurate. 5. Written documentation justifying the need for a new telecommunications tower site to be located on the proposed site. This documentation must address, at a minimum, how the proposed tower is justified in relation to the following points:  a) a list, description and map of the potential co-location, nonresidential use or alternative location sites that are located within the geographic service area of the proposed site;  b) documentation that requests for co-location have been made at least 30 days prior to the filing of application for site plan approval c) a detailed explanation of why each such site was not technologically, legally or economically feasible, or why such efforts were otherwise unsuccessful;  d) an analysis of how and why the proposed site is essential to meet service demands for the geographic service area and the countywide network;   March 21, 2018 VI-6 6. Certification that the proposed telecommunications tower is structurally and technically designed and capable, and will be so constructed, to meet the co- location requirements set forth in this Section. Immediately upon completion of construction, as-built certifications of same shall be submitted as well. B. Co-location Requirements. All towers constructed subsequent to the adoption of this Section, and their associated compounds, shall be designed and built to accommodate additional wireless communication service providers based on the height of the tower as follows:  1. Towers 80 to 159 feet in height shall accommodate a minimum of two (2) providers. 2. Towers 160 to 209 feet in height shall accommodate a minimum of three (3) providers. 3. Towers of 210 to 300 feet in height shall accommodate a minimum of four (4) providers. Carriers wishing to co-locate on an existing tower may receive administrative approval of their request. C. Maximum Utilization of Existing Sites. No new telecommunications tower shall be constructed if space is structurally, technically, and economically available for the proposed telecommunications antenna(s) and related facilities on an existing tower; or on an alternative site (e.g. building or other structure), where such alternative location would cover the required service area without creating undue signal interference. D. Pre-Existing Towers. Any telecommunications tower or telecommunications antenna for which a permit has been properly issued shall hereafter be considered a non- conforming use subject to the provisions of Article IX of this Ordinance. The purpose and intent of this Section is to minimize the proliferation of new towers and promote the co-location of new antennas onto existing towers. Any communications antenna locating on a pre-existing properly permitted telecommunications tower subsequent to adoption of this Section shall be exempt from the restrictions of Article V of this Ordinance when the provisions below are met:  1. If structural strengthening is necessary to accommodate co-location, the tower type shall remain the same as previously permitted. 2. There will be no increase in the total height or type of lighting of the facility, including the tower, antennas and all other associated facilities. 3. All setback and buffer requirements applicable to the existing tower, at the time its permit was issued will continue to be applicable to such tower. March 21, 2018 VI-7 The Planning Department shall permit such facilities through administrative review and approval. 602.02. Exemptions. The following wireless communications facilities shall be exempt from the requirements of this Section:  1. Amateur radio antennas and receive-only antennas not more than 60 feet in height, and satellite earth station antennas two (2) meters or less in diameter, shall be exempt as provided for in the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 when no supportive tower is to be constructed. 2. Accessory facilities used exclusively for dispatch communications by public emergency agencies or government agencies. 3. Accessory facilities used exclusively for dispatch communications by private entities, or for internal communications by public utilities, provided such facilities do not exceed a total of 60 feet in height whether mounted to a structure or ground mounted. The Planning Director shall make determination of exemption of any such facilities exceeding the foregoing dimensions. 603. Residential Use Regulations. This Section specifies the minimum lot dimensions and other requirements for each type of residential unit permitted by this Ordinance, except in areas designated as Special District (SD). When a lot size exceeds the minimum permitted area, all other standards applicable to the minimum lot area shall nevertheless apply. The figures specified in the tables of this Section are expressed in terms of square feet, feet, or a ratio, whichever applies. Lot sizes and other requirements for residential lots within Special Districts (SD) shall be established through the review and approval of the required Master Development Plan, (See Section 604). 603.01. Conventional subdivisions. A conventional subdivision consists of single-family dwellings on individual lots and, unless otherwise required by Article V, requires no public or community open space, including resource protection and recreation land. A conventional subdivision is characterized by division of the entire subject parcel into lots. Table 6-1, Lot Area, Setbacks and Maximum Impervious Surface and Parking Requirements for Conventional Subdivisions, specifies the minimum standards for conventional single-family subdivision lots of various sizes in zones other than “RS”. Table 6-2 provides development standards for conventional subdivisions in the Residential (RS) District. March 21, 2018 VI-8  Table 6-1: Lot Area, Setbacks, Maximum Impervious Surface, and parking Requirements for Conventional Subdivisions (except in RS districts: See Table 6-2)  Minimum Yards (feet) Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)  Minimum Lot Width  Maximum ISR  Street  One Side  Side Yard On-Street  Total Side  Rear  Off-Street Parking    40,000 70 0.20 25 15 25 30 40 2 30,000 70 0.24 25 12 25 25 35 2 20,000 70 0.26 25 10 25 20 30 2 10,000 70 0.35 25 6 20 15 20 2 Less than 10,000  70  0.35  25  6  20  15  20  2  Note: In cases where side lot lines are not parallel because the lot fronts on a curved right-of-way, minimum width at road frontage shall be as follows:  1. Curved right-of-way: 75 percent of normal width requirement. 2. Subdivision cul-de-sac: 50 percent of normal width requirement. Width at road frontage shall be measured along a straight line connecting the foremost points of side lot lines. March 21, 2018 VI-9 Table 6-2: Lot Area, Setback, Bulk Regulations and Parking Requirements: Conventional Subdivisions. Setbacks (in feet)   Zone1 Min. Lot Area (Sq. Ft.) Min. Lot Width2 (Ft.)  Front  Rear  Side Yard  Side yard on Street  ISR3  Height (Ft.)  Off- Street Parking RS-1 15,000 95 40 50 14 25 0.30 35 2 RS-2 12,000 85 35 35 12 25 0.40 35 2 RS-3 9,000 75 30 35 10 20 0.45 35 2 RS-44 6,000 60 20 20 7 15 0.50 35 2   1This column indicates the regulations applicable to Residential (RS) Districts, which have different standards according to the minimum lot size of the particular district. The minimum lot size of a Residential (RS) District varies and is a function of the character of that district as of the date of enactment of this Ordinance. Unless a Special District zoning is requested and a Master Plan submitted, lots must be sized and developed according to the zoning requested. 2In cases where side lot lines are not parallel because the lot fronts on a curved right-of-way, minimum width at road frontage shall be as follows: 1. Curved right-of-way: 75 percent of normal width requirement. 2. Subdivision cul-de-sac: 50 percent of normal width requirement Width at road frontage shall be measured along a straight line connecting the foremost points of the side lot line. 3Maximum Impervious Surface Ratio. 4Developments containing lots of 9,000 square feet or less in size are required to have a minimum of 20% Open Space. See Section 512.01. March 21, 2018 VI-10 603.02. Manufactured Housing The purpose of this section is to provide standards and procedures specifically relevant to the location and development of manufactured housing and manufactured home communities within the City of Northport. These standards are separate from those established in Section 603.03. F. for Manufactured Home Parks. A. Definitions. Manufactured home. A home transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or forty body feet or more in length, or when erected on site is three hundred twenty or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems . The home is built to the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act. Manufactured home lot/site. A parcel of land for the placement of a single manufactured home unit and for the exclusive use of its occupants. Manufactured home community/subdivision. A development that has been planned, improved and used for the placement of four (4) or more manufactured homes for residential occupancy. The lots in said community/subdivision shall be for fee simple sale to individuals wishing to place a manufactured home on said lot, and shall not be used for lease or rental purposes. Mobile Home or House Trailer. Any detached residential dwelling, built prior to June 15, 1976, prior to the National Manufactured Housing Construction Safety Standards Act. Designed and fabricated to be transported on its own wheels and axles arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, completed and ready for occupancy includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems. Travel Trailers, campers, recreational vehicles and motor homes are not to be considered as Manufactured Homes, Mobile Homes, or House Trailers. Modular Home. A factory fabricated transportable home consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a foundation and used for residential purposes. A modular home must have a seal of compliance according to the regulations of the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission. Note: For the purposes of this Article, the term “manufactured home” shall include “modular home” and all requirements shall apply equally to each. March 21, 2018 VI-11 B. Manufactured Homes As In-fill Dwellings. I. Compatibility Standards – Location Restrictions. Manufactured Homes may be permitted on a vacant lot within the AG, & RS zoning districts, subject to full compliance with the following conditions:  a. The proposed manufactured home will not be located on a vacant lot that is within a designated local, state or federal historic district, or a vacant lot that is between two or more structures that have been listed on or are eligible for addition to the National Register of Historic Places. b. The combined value of the proposed manufactured home and the property upon which it will be sited shall not be less than ninety (90) percent of the average appraised value of all adjoining properties that have been improved for single family residential use. C. Compatibility Standards – Generally. The following are compatibility standards for manufactured homes meeting the definition of dwelling-single family. Manufactured homes qualifying as dwelling, single-family shall be compatible to site-built and other housing in the immediate general area within the same zoning or residential district. Approval shall be granted when the manufactured home is substantially similar in size, siding material, roof material, foundation and general aesthetic appearance to: (1) site-built or other forms of housing which may be permitted in the same general area under this Ordinance or (2) existing development or (3) proposed development in the same zoning district. Items subject to compatibility comparison will include the following:  I. Exterior Finish. Any material may be used for exterior finish that is generally used in areas near the location where the manufactured home is sited. II. Installation. Manufactured homes and mobile homes shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions or the regulations published by the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission. III. Size & Appearance. The general appearance and square footage of the home shall conform to housing in adjacent or nearby locations to insure compatibility of site-built homes and manufactured housing. IV. Site-orientation. Manufactured homes and mobile homes shall be placed on lots in a manner compatible with and reasonably similar in orientation to other structures in the area. V. Towing device. All towing devices, wheels, axles and hitches must be removed. March 21, 2018 VI-12 VI. Utilities. The home must be connected to water and sewage systems (including well and septic tank, if applicable) approved by the Alabama Department of Public Health or the Alabama Department of Environmental Management. VII. Underpinning. The type of material and method used for underpinning shall be consistent with and compatible to site-built homes in adjacent locations. D. Standards for All Manufactured Homes. All manufactured homes shall comply with the following standards:  I. All mobile homes or trailers that are nonconforming prior to the effective date of this Ordinance shall be treated as nonconforming uses. II. All manufactured homes placed after the effective date must comply with the requirements of this Zoning Ordinance. III. HUD Seal required. Prior to installation, each manufactured home shall bear a seal certifying compliance with the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Any existing mobile home or trailer not bearing such a seal shall be deemed a non-conforming structure and shall be treated as a non-conforming structure and use in accordance with the regulations established in Article VI of this Ordinance. IV. It shall be unlawful for any person to initially place, replace or relocate a manufactured home or mobile home within the City of Northport without first being granted a permit approved by the Planning Commission. V. The City Council of the City of Northport, upon recommendation by the Planning Commission, may grant to an applicant permission to park and/or use a manufactured home upon the premises on which a building or home is being constructed during the time of construction and may qualify, limit or terminate such permission at any time without notice. The permit shall be issued showing permission with a specific time period allowed for building of home to be both started and completed. If sincere construction is not started by the allotted start date or if the construction is not continuing on a reasonable basis as determined by the Council, the permit shall be revoked unless a plea is made to the Council by the applicant for an extension and that extension is granted. VI. Installation requirements. All manufactured homes shall be set up, installed, and anchored in full compliance with the requirements of the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission. March 21, 2018 VI-13 VII. Skirting required. All manufactured homes shall be skirted with a weather- resistant material, which resembles a single-family dwelling. Skirting shall be adequately vented. VIII. Axles and towing devices removed. Once a manufactured home has been placed on an individual lot, all tow bars and axles shall be removed and either removed from the property or stored on the lot where they will not be visible. IX. Access to exterior entrances. Immediately after installation and prior to occupation, a landing/porch/deck shall be installed on all front and back entrances. At least one of said landings shall be no narrower than five (5) feet in depth (as measured outward from the exterior of the structure) nor shorter than eight (8) feet in length and containing a railing along all exterior edges of the landing. Stairways leading to decks shall be no less than three (3) feet in width with exterior railing. All required stairways and landings/porches/decks shall be constructed of wood or brick materials or some combination of both. Required railing may be constructed of wood or metal material. X. Additions. Additions to manufactured housing must be compatible with the home and surrounding area. E. Standards for Manufactured Home Communities/Subdivisions. I. Procedures. (See Section 603.03.F. for Manufactured Home Parks)  a. Community Plan. A manufactured home community plan shall be developed and drawn to a scale of one (1) inch to one hundred (100) feet and shall include the following:  1. The name of the community, the names and addresses of the owners and the names and addresses of the designer or surveyor. 2. The date, scale and approximate north arrow. 3. The boundaries of the community. 4. The site plan of the community showing streets, driveways, open area, parking spaces, service buildings, water courses, easements, manufactured home spaces and other items as may be required by the Commission to assure compliance with the standards contained in these regulations. 5. Names of adjoining property owners. 6. The identification of all gas, water and sewage lines that will service the community. Street lights and solid waste containers shall also be included. March 21, 2018 VI-14  7. Surface water drainage plans. b. Review and Approval. Before a permit is issued for construction of a manufactured home community, the plan for the community must be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and approval in accordance with the City’s Subdivision Regulations. F. Platting Requirements. Manufactured home communities/subdivision proposed for location within the corporate limits of the City of Northport must comply with all requirements of the Subdivision Regulations, including but not limited to, road construction standards, access requirements, drainage requirements, etc. Additionally, unless otherwise approved, manufactured home communities located in the City of Northport must meet all lot size and setback requirements for the zoning district in which it is to be located, as setout in Article IV, Table 4-2. 603.03 Performance Residential Developments. The purpose of a performance residential development is to provide innovative development types that make efficient use of land and public facilities, and/or to protect natural features. Performance residential developments may contain one or more of the housing types that are specified in this subsection subject to the overall density standards established through approval of a Master Development Plan. For purposes of calculating density, the development site shall include all platted lots, together with road, drainage facilities, utility sites and any other common property within the perimeter of the subdivision plat, regardless of whether or not such facilities will ultimately be dedicated to the City. Such developments shall contain the minimum amount of open space specified in the Master Development Plan. Prior to approving the final plat, the Planning Director shall verify that all parcels or tracts not intended for use as residential lots are clearly delineated on the plat as to size and dimension. The purpose, ownership, and responsibility for maintenance for each parcel or tract shall be noted on the plat. Unless specifically accepted by the City Council, the City of Northport shall not be responsible for maintenance and/or repair of any common facility or properties. Performance residential developments shall be self-contained in terms of meeting the requirements of this Ordinance. In addition to other relevant requirements, site plans and subdivision plats shall designate and establish maintenance responsibility for all required recreation, resource protection, and other open space and common properties within the development site. Where a performance residential development is to be built, a Master Development Plan shall be required. In such cases the Planning Director may determine if Special District Zoning is appropriate. March 21, 2018 VI-15 General requirements for the various performance development types are summarized below:   Housing Type  S/D Plat Required Bldg. Envelope On Plat  Site Plan Required  Units per Lot  Units per Structure Platted Open Space SF Detached X 1 1 X1 Zero Lot-Line X X 1 1 X Town House X X 1 3-10 X Twin House X X 1 2 X Duplex X 2 2 X Multiple Unit Development  X 3+ 2 Manufactured Home Park  X 25+ 1 Manufactured Home Subdivision2 X X 1 1 X1 1See Table 6-2, note 4 2See Section 603.02. (E). The following subsections specify the standards and requirements for each dwelling type in detail. A. Zero Lot Line. Under this development concept, each residential lot contains a dwelling unit placed along one side lot line in order to maximize usable open area within the lot. All zero lot line subdivision plats shall show driveways, walkways, patio slabs, and building envelopes for all structures. No windows, doors, air conditioning units or other openings or projections of any kind shall be permitted where the structure meets the side lot line. However, a window may face the zero side yard if it is recessed at least five (5) feet from the property line. (See Figure 13)  For each unit constructed along a side lot line, an easement of five (5) feet in width shall be created on the adjoining property. The purpose of this easement is to permit maintenance and repair of the portion of the structure bordering the zero side yard. All maintenance easements shall be shown on the final plat, along with an indication of the lot to which each easement is assigned. No fence, patio, deck, or structure of any kind shall be placed within a maintenance easement. Zero lot-line units shall not take access from an arterial road. In addition to the bufferyard requirements of Article V, zero lot-line subdivisions shall also meet the following development criteria:    March 21, 2018 VI-16  Minimum Lot Area 4,500 s.f. Maximum I.S.R. on individual lots .55 Maximum F.A.R. .35 Minimum Yards:    Front/Side on Street 20 ft.   Side Opposite zero   setback line 5 ft.*    Rear 20 ft. Minimum Lot Width 45 ft. Off-Street Parking Spaces 2 *or width of any easement along side lot line, whichever is greater. B. Town House. This development type consists of a subdivision, platted according to the requirements of the Subdivision Regulations, which is designed for town house dwelling units as defined in Article II. Each town house unit shares a common wall with another such unit on one or both sides, has individual entrances (not used by other units) in the front and rear, and may be place on its own lot within the subdivision or on common lots managed through a condominium association. Town house structures shall contain at least three (3) and not more than six (6) dwelling units. Such units may have multiple stories or combinations of one- and two-story sections; however, in no case shall one unit be above or behind another. Front, side and/or rear yards may be enclosed by a masonry wall not exceeding six (6) feet in height provided that such walls do not prevent a clear view of intersecting streets. (See Section 419). (See Figure 14)  In addition to meeting all other requirements of the Subdivision Regulations, plats for town house development shall show driveways, walkways, patio slabs, and building envelopes for all structures. No more than ten (10) town house units shall be permitted in any structure. Town house lots may be accessed via ally ways to the rear of the lots or from dedicated parking areas. In no case shall town house lots take direct access from any public road. Minimum Lot Area 2,000 s.f. Maximum I.S.R. on individual lots .60 Maximum F.A.R. .60 Minimum Yards:    Front 15 ft.   Side (end units) 10 ft.*   Side on Street 20 ft.   Rear 15 ft. Minimum Lot Width 18 ft. Off-Street Parking Spaces 1 per bedroom  March 21, 2018 VI-17 *or width of any easement along side lot line, whichever is greater. C. Twin House. This development type consists of a subdivision, platted according to the requirements of the Subdivision Regulations, which is designed for twin house dwelling units as defined in Article II. Each twin house unit shares a common wall with another such unit on one side, has individual entrances (not used by other units) in the front and rear, and shall be place on its own lot within the subdivision. Twin house structures shall consist of two (2) dwelling units; such units may have multiple stories or combinations of one-and two-story sections; however, in no case shall one unit be above or behind another. Front, side and/or rear yards may be enclosed by a masonry wall not exceeding six (6) feet in height provided that such walls do not prevent a clear view of intersecting streets (see Section 419). (See Figure 15)  In addition to meeting all other requirements of the Subdivision Regulations, plats for twin house development shall show driveways, walkways, patio slabs, and building envelopes for all structures. Twin house lots may be accessed via ally ways to the rear of the lots or from dedicated parking areas. In no case shall twin house lots take direct access from any public road. Minimum Lot Area 3,500 s.f. per unit Maximum I.S.R. on individual lots .45 Maximum F.A.R. .30 Minimum Yards:    Front/Side on Street 25 ft.   Side 10 ft.   Rear 20 ft. Minimum Lot Width 25 ft. Off-Street Parking Spaces 1 per bedroom   D. Duplex Subdivision. This development type consists of two-unit structures in which dwelling units may be constructed side-by-side, one above another, or one behind another. The development site shall be platted as a subdivision containing one (1) duplex structure per lot. In no case shall any duplex lot or development site be subdivided so as to create separate lots for dwelling units within a duplex structure. While ownership of the dwelling units may be separated on a condominium basis, the land on which the structure is built shall remain undivided common property. Duplex lots shall not take access from an arterial road. Duplex lots may be accessed via ally ways to the rear of the lots or from dedicated parking areas. March 21, 2018 VI-18  Duplex developments shall be designed according to the following standards:  Minimum Lot Area 7,000 s.f. Maximum I.S.R. on individual lots .45 Maximum F.A.R. .30 Minimum Yards:    Front/Side on Street 25 ft.   Side 10 ft.   Rear 20 ft. Minimum Lot Width 75 ft. Off-Street Parking Spaces 1 per bedroom  E. Multiple Unit Development. This development type consists of two (2) unattached or any arrangement of three (3) or more dwelling units on an undivided lot. All multiple unit developments shall be subject to site plan approval pursuant to Section 1002. Separate ownership of the units is permitted on a condominium basis; however, in no case shall the development site be platted or otherwise divided for the purpose of assigning specific lots or parcels to particular dwelling units. No existing single-family house or lot in a conventional residential subdivision shall be used for multi-unit development unless expressly approved under Section 1003. Minimum Lot Area 10,000 s.f. Maximum I.S.R. on individual lots  .75 Maximum F.A.R. .85 Minimum spacing between buildings 15 ft. Minimum Lot Width 70 ft. Off-Street Parking Spaces 1 per bedroom Minimum Yards:    Front/Side on Street 25 ft.   Side 10 ft.   Rear 25 ft. Height Restriction 40 ft.  F. Manufactured Home Park. This housing type consists of manufactured home units installed on an undivided development site through site plan approval under Section 1002. In no case shall a manufactured home park be separated into lots in fee simple ownership, except as provided for in Section 603.02.F. Standards for Manufactured  March 21, 2018 VI-19 Home Communities/Subdivision. All manufactured home sites shall be shown on a site plan. Recreational vehicles shall be permitted within designated storage areas only and shall not be used for residential purposes. March 21, 2018 VI-20 All manufactured home parks shall be developed according to the following standards:  Minimum size for development site 10 acres Minimum number of manufactured home sites 25 Minimum size for manufactured home site 4,500 s.f. Minimum width for manufactured home site 45 feet Maximum I.S.R. for entire park .35 Maximum I.S.R. on a manufactured home site1 .60 Off-Street Parking Spaces 2 per manufactured home, plus 1 per 200 s.f. of gross floor area of permanent habitable structures Maximum building height (conventional structures) 35 feet 1For purposes of site plan review, it shall be assumed that impervious surfaces cover 60 percent of each designated manufactured home site unless the site plan specifies a lesser amount. 1. Landscaping and Yards:  a) All manufactured home parks shall be separated from all other land uses by a bufferyard. b) Manufactured homes and structures shall be placed at least 20 feet from the pavement edge of private park roads. c) Manufactured homes and freestanding structures serving as common facilities shall be at least 30 feet apart. No carport or other attached structure may be installed on a manufactured home less than 20 feet from another manufactured home or attached structure. This distance shall be measured between the closest points of the units or structures. d) Storage sheds or other freestanding accessory structures shall be prohibited in required bufferyards and open space areas. Any such structure shall be at least ten (10) feet from any other structure. 2. Allowable accessory uses:  a) Clubhouse, laundry, swimming pool, and other shared facilities for the common use of the residents of a development. b) No more than one (1) dwelling unit of conventional construction, at least 600 s.f. in size, for the use of a resident manager. c) Storage area for boats, recreational vehicles, and other types of vehicles that exceed 30 feet in length. The storage area shall be for the use of park residents only, and shall be fenced and landscaped. Storage of these units  March 21, 2018 VI-21 shall be prohibited on individual manufactured home sites or on park roads. 3. Other regulations:  a) Ownership. Manufactured home parks may not be platted or otherwise divided by fee simple ownership; however, the sale of interests or memberships on a condominium basis is permitted. All facilities, including roads, shall be privately owned or owned in common by residents of the park, and shall not occupy parcels of land which are deeded separately from the common facilities within any manufactured home park. b) Access and Internal Circulation. Internal park roads and driveways shall be paved, and shall be owned and maintained by the developer or property owner of the park. For each manufactured home site, two (2) paved off-street parking spaces of ten (10) feet by 20 feet each shall be provided. No individual manufactured home site shall have direct access to a public right-of-way. c) Site Plan. No structures or facilities shall be installed or constructed until a site plan meeting the requirements of Section 1002 of this Ordinance has been submitted to and approved by the City of Northport. All improvements, regardless of timing or project phasing, shall be substantially consistent with the approved site plan. Where an existing manufactured home park has no site plan, such a plan shall be prepared and submitted to the City prior to the addition, improvement, rearrangement or replacement of park facilities or manufactured homes. d) Occupancy. No manufactured home shall be installed, stored, or otherwise located within a manufactured home park development site, nor shall residential utility service be authorized, until the park has received a Certificate of Occupancy from the Building Inspections Department. e) Storm Shelter. All new or redeveloped manufactured home parks shall contain an appropriately sized storm shelter for the use of park residents. Said shelter shall be constructed in conformance with State of Alabama Emergency Management Agency standards. March 21, 2018 VI-22 603.04. Infill/Existing Neighborhoods. The intent of this section is to ensure neighborhood compatibility, maintain harmony and character of existing residential areas, and ensure residential infill development occurs in a desirable manner. For subdivisions developed and lots platted prior to the adoption of this Zoning Ordinance (Ordinance 1779; April 2, 2012), every attempt should be made to comply with the current zoning standards. The Planning Director and/or Zoning Administrator may determine that compliance with current zoning setbacks are unreasonable or would create a house out of character with the neighborhood. The following options are permitted to be used:  1. Setbacks found in the zoning ordinance in effect immediately prior to Ord. 1779 2. Setbacks found on the recorded plat or master plan 3. For front setbacks: an average of the front setbacks for the lots with houses adjacent to and on the same side of the street of the proposed house If the above options are unable to be used or would create a layout out of character with the neighborhood, as determined by the Planning Director and/or Zoning Administrator, then a variance must be sought through the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Section 604. Master Development Plan. Where any development site is to be developed in stages or phases, no plat or phase plan for any fraction of the site shall be accepted for review, unless a Master Development Plan is submitted. A Master Development Plan shall be required in connection with any request for Performance Residential Development or Special District (SD) zoning. A Master Development Plan shall also be required for any development containing a mixture of residential and non-residential land uses, and/or more than one of the dwelling unit types described in Section 603.02. The Master Development Plan shall be a conceptual plan showing the entire development site and all component stages or phases, and shall express the overall development concept for the site at build-out. The plan shall show all proposed streets and shall demonstrate compatibility between adjacent land uses. The plan has two additional purposes: to ensure that required amenities keep a reasonable pace with residential construction in a phased development; and to establish an outer perimeter for the purpose of calculating density and required open space. The Master Development Plan shall include the following information:  A. outer boundary or perimeter of the overall development site, including a valid legal description;  B. approximate locations of all proposed streets;  C. type, number and approximate locations of all dwelling units;  March 21, 2018 VI-23 D. overall gross density for the development site, as well as density for each individual stage or phase;  E. location and approximate acreage of all resource protection, recreation, and open space lands and other common properties;  F. location of all streets and drainage facilities;  G. required bufferyards; and  H. any other information which the Planning Director determines to be relevant. Where a Master Development Plan is submitted in conjunction with a Special District (SD) zoning this plan shall include a written statement addressing design standards within the development, including minimum residential lot sizes and widths, building setbacks, building heights, signage, impervious surface and floor area ratios, and any other information the Planning Director determines to be relevant. Upon approval, this written statement shall become a component of the Master Development Plan and shall be binding upon all future development on the site. When a Master Development Plan is required, such plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to or simultaneously with any regular site plan or subdivision plat submitted. Upon approval of the Master Development Plan, the developer may submit and the Planning Commission may approve subdivision plats or site plans for individual phases or stages. The Master Development Plan shall include a schedule showing density and open space on a cumulative basis upon completion of each phase. All stage or phase plans shall be consistent with the approved Master Development Plan. Once approved, the Master Development Plan shall become a binding condition of development on the site, and subsequent stages or phases of the development shall be substantially consistent with it. If the Planning Director finds that any stage or phase plan substantially deviates from the approved Master Development Plan, a revised master plan shall be required for Planning Commission review prior to approval of further site plans or subdivision plats within the development. Any of the following changes shall constitute a “substantial deviation:”  A. An increase or reduction in land area of the development. B. An increase in the total number of dwelling units. C. Provision of less than the required percentage of recreation, resource protection, or open space land. March 21, 2018 VI-24 D. Proposal of single family attached, duplex, multi-family or zero lot-line development in place of approved single family detached housing. E. Any significant addition, removal or rearrangement of land uses and streets. Master Development Plan approval shall expire 24 months after granted unless significant progress has been made toward implementation of the development. Such progress shall be commensurate with the scale of the project. Section 605. SPECIAL DISTRICT (SD) Special districts are hereby authorized for the purpose of providing optional methods of land development, which encourages imaginative solutions to environmental design problems. Areas so established shall be characterized by a unified building and site development program providing for coordinated open space and architectural treatment. The special districts authorized by this Article are also intended to provide means for the establishment of uses, which are generally considered to be incompatible with most other land usage. 605.01. Procedure. The procedure to be followed in the creation of special districts shall conform to the regulations for any other zone change with the following exceptions. A. Any petition for the establishment of a Special District shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for its review and action. Approval of the request shall be based on the Commission's consideration of the following:  1) That the proposed development is consistent with the intent and purpose of this ordinance to promote public health, safety, and welfare. 2) That the final plan for the proposed development meets the requirements of this ordinance as well as the requirements of all other regulating bodies. 3) That an approved method of sewage disposal is available to the tract under consideration. B. The establishment of a Special District will be for the express purpose of improving the tract of land in accordance with the approved plan of development for the particular tract of land and for the uses set forth in the development plan. C. If, within two (2) years from the effective date of the zone amendment, construction has not commenced, the Planning Commission may, by appropriate action, repeal the amendment establishing the Special District. Once construction is started the improvements set forth in the plan of development must be completed within two years from date of issuance. Otherwise, the Planning Commission may repeal the amendment establishing the Special District. Extension of time may be granted as long as satisfactory progress is being made. March 21, 2018 VI-25  D. Unless specific variations are noted on the development plan and approved by the Planning Commission, the most restrictive requirements for parking, loading, yards, and dimensional regulations for the proposed use shall be applicable to the Special District. 605.02. Shopping Center – Special District (SC-SD)  A. A special district created for the purpose of establishing a planned shopping center may be allowed in any district except the "RS" and “RG” districts. B. The Planned Shopping Center District shall be laid out, developed and used according to a plan prepared in compliance with the provisions of this article in order to provide for modern retail shopping facilities in appropriate locations to serve residential neighborhoods or regional areas. Any owner or owners of a tract of land may request that such tract of land be zoned as a Planned Shopping Center District by proceeding under the provisions of this article, but the failure of such owner or owners to apply under this article shall not prevent them from constructing or causing to be constructed a retail sales complex, customarily called a Shopping Center, upon such tract of land provided the same is zoned so as to permit its use for this purpose. C. The use of each building or premises shall be in accordance with the plan referred to in this Article, which use shall be limited to services, offices, clinics, parking, retail sale or merchandise, and similar activities ordinarily accepted as shopping center uses. No building shall be designed, constructed, structurally altered or used for residential purposes, except to provide within the buildings allowed, facilities for a custodian, caretaker, or watchman employed on the premises. D. The structures permitted in this article shall observe a maximum height of seventy- five feet. E. The owner or owners of a tract of land may submit to the Planning Commission a plan for the development and use of such tract for the purpose of and meeting the requirements set forth in this article. Said plan shall comply with all requirements of this article and shall be accompanied by evidence concerning the feasibility of the project and the effect of the proposed development on surrounding property and other physical conditions, which plan and supporting evidence shall include each of the following:  1) A site plan defining the areas wherein buildings may be constructed, the areas which will be developed for parking and the proportionate amount thereof, the location of roads, driveways and walks and the points of ingress and egress, including access streets where required, the location and height of walls, the spaces for loading, the location, size, character and number of signs, the location and character of exterior lighting, and the character and extent of landscaping, planting and other treatment for protection of adjoining property. 2) A drainage plan approved by the Planning Commission. March 21, 2018 VI-26  3) A copy of any deed restrictions intended to be recorded. 4) A professional report on the needs and extent of the market to be served, and general economic justification. 5) A professional traffic analysis indicating the effect of the proposed shopping center on adjacent streets and roadways and also indicating the direction and amount of traffic flow to and from the shopping center. F. Before any action thereon, the proposed planned shopping center plan, together with the required supplementary information shall be referred to the Planning Commission for study and report. Reasonable additional requirements may be required by the Planning Commission for the protection of adjoining residential property. March 21, 2018 VI-27 605.03. Residential – Special District (RS-SD)  A. The regulations established in this section are intended to provide optional methods of land development with provisions for commercial, religious, educational and cultural facilities, which are integrated with the total project by unified architectural and open space treatment. B. A planned residential development shall be permitted in any district except the "C" and "M" districts. C. The following uses are permitted:  1) Single family attached and detached dwellings. 2) Any performance dwelling type shown in Section 603.03. 3) Multiple family dwelling including condominiums and town houses. 4) Commercial uses. For each one hundred (100) dwelling units to be established, four (4) acres may be set aside for commercial use provided that adequate protection of adjacent properties is afforded by the plan. 5) Recreation uses. Recreation uses may include a community center, golf course, swimming pool, or parks, playground or other recreational uses. Any structure involved in such use shall have a thirty-five (35) foot setback from all property lines. 6) The amount of land set aside for permanent open space shall be fifteen (15) percent of the gross development area. 7) Educational uses. 8) Community facilities such as churches and other religious institutions and non- profit clubs such as country clubs, swim and/or tennis area. D. The following requirements are minimums and are intended to serve as a guide in plan formulation. The Planning Commission retains the authority to waive the provisions of this section or to impose greater requirements than herein stated. All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way lines and from the periphery of the project to comply with the following requirements:  1) There shall be a front yard for all detached single-family dwellings of not less than twenty-five (25) feet. The front yard setback for all other structures shall be as determined by the Planning Commission. March 21, 2018 VI-28 2) Unless indicated elsewhere, all buildings shall have a setback of not less than twenty-five (25) feet. 3) In no case shall a lot, for a single family detached structure, be created with an area of less than 4,000 square feet or a frontage of less than sixty (55) feet at the building line. E. In addition to other applicable regulations the following rules shall be observed. 1) The application must be accompanied by a site development plan showing the use or uses, dimensions and locations of proposed streets, parks, play-grounds, other open spaces, residential buildings, commercial buildings and such other pertinent information as may be necessary to adequately determine that the proposed development meets the purpose of this ordinance. 2) The Planning Commission shall review the conformity of the proposed development by employing recognized principles of design and land use planning. The minimum yard and maximum height requirements of the zoning district shall not apply except as set forth herein. The Planning Commission may impose conditions regarding layout, circulation, and other physical improvements. 3) Where the planned residential development provides for single family attached (row houses) or single family detached housing to be held under individual ownership by the occupant, a plat of development shall be recorded and shall show building lines, common land, streets, easements and other applicable features. 4) The proposed development must be designed to produce an environment of stable and desirable character not out of harmony with its surrounding neighborhood. It shall include provisions for recreation areas to meet the needs of the anticipated population. Section 606. Mixed-Use Developments. Developments, other than those within a Special District (SD) which include more than one use on the same site, and in which the uses fall into two or more different use categories, shall be treated as mixed-use developments; and are required to meet the standards of this Section in addition to any other regulations imposed by this Ordinance. All uses proposed within a mixed-use development must be permitted under Table 4-1 in the district in which the development is to be located, or be approved as part of a Special District zoning and Master Development Plan. Uses shown in Table 4-1 as conditional must be approved under the provisions of Section 1003. March 21, 2018 VI-29 For review purposes, a separate development site for each land use category shall be delineated within a mixed-use development wherever possible. For shopping centers and any other case in which the different land uses occupy a single structure, the most restrictive requirements relating to any of the individual uses will be applied to the entire site. Section 607. Accessory Uses and Structures. 607.01. Authorization. Except as otherwise expressly provided or limited by this Ordinance, accessory structures and uses are permitted in any zoning district in connection with any principal use lawfully existing or permitted within such district. Any question of whether a particular use is permitted as an accessory use by the provision of this Section shall be determined by the Planning Director pursuant to his or her authority to interpret the provisions of this Ordinance. 607.02. Zoning certificate required. No accessory use or structure shall be established or constructed unless a zoning certificate evidencing the compliance of such use or structure with the provisions of this Section, and other applicable provision of this Ordinance and all other City regulations, shall have first been issued in accordance with Section 1004. 607.03. Use limitations. In addition to complying with all other regulations, no accessory use or structure shall be permitted unless it strictly complies with the following restrictions:  A. The principal use or structure, together with any accessory use or structure, shall not jointly exceed the FAR and ISR in any given use class. B. No accessory structure or use shall be constructed or established on any lot prior to the time of the substantial completion of the principal structure. This shall not apply to agriculture-related structures in the Agricultural (AG) District. C. No accessory structure or use on any lot shall cause any impervious surface ratio or exterior storage area to exceed the maximum permitted on the site by this Ordinance. D. In the case of all nonresidential uses: accessory structures shall maintain the same minimum front, side, and rear yard as is required for the principal structure. E. No accessory structure shall be closer than ten (10) feet to a principal structure or closer than five (5) feet to any other accessory structure, unless it is attached to such principal or other structure by means of fully enclosed living area. F. Accessory structures and uses shall comply with all applicable area, bulk, and yard regulations. G. Accessory structures relating to residential uses shall be placed no less than ten (10) feet to the rear of the front building line or front plane of the structure, whichever is greater. Accessory structures on lots of three (3) acres or more in the Agricultural (AG) District shall be setback a minimum of 100 feet from the front property line. March 21, 2018 VI-30  H. No accessory structure shall be placed within a required bufferyard or located closer than five (5) feet to a property line where no bufferyard is required. I. On corner lots, no accessory structure shall be located within the required setback for a side yard adjacent to a street. J. On any one (1) residential lot, the total floor area of all accessory structures shall be limited to 50 percent of the floor area of the principal structure. This shall include open carports, gazebos and greenhouses, but not swimming pools. Lots of three (3) acres or larger in the Agricultural (AG) district shall be exempt from this limitation. K. Accessory structures shall be constructed of materials compatible with those of the principle structure; with the exception that one (1) metal or prefabricated residential accessory structure not exceeding 200 sq. ft. in size may be allowed in the rear yard. 608. Detailed Accessory Use Regulations The accessory uses and structures specifically mentioned below are subject to the following additional requirements:  608.01. Home Occupations. It is the purpose of this Section to provide residents of the City of Northport a wide range of opportunities in the use of their residences in profitable activities. However, the character of the City’s residential areas must also be preserved. Therefore, these regulations shall ensure that such activities remain limited in scope so as not to interfere with the principal use of any residential neighborhood or development. A. General Regulations. All home occupations shall meet the following criteria:  1. The home occupation must be clearly secondary and incidental to the use of the dwelling unit as a residence. No more than 25 percent of the total floor area of the dwelling shall be used for the home occupation, to a maximum of 500 square feet. For the purposes of this Section, “total floor area” shall include all heated and ventilated areas within the dwelling. Garages, carports, outside storage rooms, and porches shall be excluded. At the Planning Director’s option, a floor plan of the residence may be required, indicating the specific location(s) and extent of the business activity. 2. The exterior appearance of the dwelling unit and/or premises shall not be altered, nor the occupation within the dwelling unit conducted, in any manner that would cause the premises to differ from its residential character or from the character of the neighborhood. March 21, 2018 VI-31  3. The home occupation shall be operated in the existing dwelling unit, which shall not be enlarged to accommodate the business activity. 4. No new accessory structure shall be built, nor shall any existing accessory structure be used, for the purpose of operating the home occupation. 5. There shall be no visible evidence that the dwelling is being used to operate a home occupation. Signs shall not be permitted. 6. No more than two (2) company or commercial vehicles shall be parked at the premises at any time – including but not limited to cars, vans, trucks, and utility trailers. Off-street parking shall be provided on the premises, as required by Section 611. No parking of commercial or residential vehicles shall be permitted on the street or in the required front yard. 7. A maximum of one (1) person not residing in the dwelling may engage in the operation of the home occupation. 8. No merchandise shall be distributed to customers on the premises. 9. All advertising material indicating the business hours, address and/or physical location of the business shall also state “By Appointment Only” and/or “No On Site Service”. 10. There shall be no outside display or storage of materials, goods, supplies, or equipment used in the home occupation on the premises. 11. The operation of a home occupation shall not create any nuisance such as excessive traffic, on-street parking, noise, vibration, glare, odors, fumes, smoke, dust, heat, fire hazards, electrical interference or fluctuation inline voltage, or hazards to any greater extent than that normally experienced in the residential neighborhood, or be present or noticeable beyond the property boundaries of the home occupation premises. 12. The operation of a home occupation shall not involve the sale of any dangerous or deadly weapons such as knives, firearms, or air guns. 13. The on-site repair of vehicles shall be prohibited as a home occupation. B. Application Procedures. Any applicant for a home occupation zoning certificate shall pay a fee as established in Section 1007, and submit an application form, together with any required attachments, to the Planning Director. The Planning Director shall have five (5) business days to approve or deny the application, or inform the applicant that more information is needed to reach a decision. March 21, 2018 VI-32 Each applicant for home occupation approval shall submit a deed to the property on which the proposed business will be conducted. If the applicant does not own the property, he/she shall obtain from the owner a signed and notarized letter of authorization to apply for home occupation approval. No more than one (1) home occupation shall be approved in any residential dwelling unit. A fraternity, sorority, or boarding house shall constitute a single dwelling unit. If an applicant fails to provide required documentation, or provides insufficient information, to determine compliance with this Section, the application shall be denied. C. Other Provisions. 1. Home-based businesses offering child or adult day- or nighttime-care services to more than two (2) persons shall not be considered home occupations under this Section, but shall be regulated under Section 608.02. These businesses, if previously approved as home occupations, may continue operating as such until the expiration of the current business license. 2. Yard or garage sales shall be exempt from these regulations under the following conditions: a) sales shall last no longer than two (2) consecutive days;  b) sales are held no more than four (4) times per year, with an intervening time period of at least 30 days;  c) the property on which the sale is conducted shall be owned by one of the participants;  d) no goods purchased for resale may be offered for sale;  e) no consignment goods may be offered for sale;  f) all directional or advertising signs shall be removed immediately upon completion of the sale. 3. The Planning Director, or his/her designee, shall be permitted upon reasonable request to enter and inspect the premises of an approved home occupation at any time to verify compliance with these regulations. 4. Any existing home occupation not in compliance with these regulations may continue operating as a nonconforming home occupation under the following conditions:  a) the home occupation was approved prior to the effective date of these regulations;  March 21, 2018 VI-33  b) the home occupation is in compliance with all regulations in effect at the time of its approval;  c) the business activity has continued since the effective date of these regulations without ceasing for a period in excess of 30 days;  d) the home occupation holds a valid business license issued by the City of Northport Business License Office;  e) the home occupation has operated in a lawful manner at all times prior to adoption of these regulations;  f) all signs shall be removed immediately;  g) Limitation on company vehicles and outside display/storage of materials shall become effective immediately upon adoption of this Ordinance. h) Home Occupations are not transferrable from one property owner to another. Upon sale of property the existing nonconforming home occupation shall cease operation. New owners wishing to conduct the same or a different home occupation must petition the City for a new home occupation license and must come into compliance with all home occupation regulations in place at that time. 608.02. Family Child Care Home. It is the intent of this Subsection to regulate the operation of family child care homes so that the average neighbor, under normal circumstances, will not be aware of their existence. Any resident of a dwelling unit in the City of Northport providing family child care shall apply for and receive a zoning certificate from the Planning Director subject to the following regulations:  A. The childcare activity shall be licensed to and operated by a resident of the dwelling unit in which it is located. B. The childcare activity must be clearly incidental to the use of the structure as a residence. C. Child care services shall be provided to a maximum of six (6) non-resident children at any one time. March 21, 2018 VI-34 D. The appearance of the dwelling unit, structure, and/or premises shall not be altered, nor the child care activity within the structure conducted, in any manner which would cause the premises to differ from its residential character or from the character of the neighborhood. E. The family child care home shall be operated in the existing dwelling unit. No new or existing accessory structure shall be built or used for the purpose of the child care activity. F. No sign shall be permitted in connections with the family child care home. G. The total number of persons engaged in the operation of the family child care home shall not exceed four (4). Up to two (2) persons other than those residing in the dwelling may engage in the operation of the business, provided that there is sufficient off-street parking space to accommodate the vehicles of such non-resident employees. H. Off-street parking spaces shall be provided on the premises, as required by Section 611, or as otherwise necessary. I. The operation of a family child care home shall not create any nuisance such as excessive traffic, on-street parking, or noise to any greater extent than that normally experienced in the residential neighborhood, or be present or noticeable beyond the property boundaries of the child care premises. J. The family child care home shall at all times possess an appropriate license issued by the State of Alabama. A copy of such license shall be furnished to the Planning Director upon request. Revocation or expiration of the state license shall automatically void any zoning certificate issued by the City. 608.03. Private Swimming Pools and Tennis Courts Accessory to a Residential Use. A. Swimming pools and tennis courts shall be subject to the same side and rear setback requirements applicable to other accessory structures, and shall not be located within public utility or drainage easements along side and rear lot lines. For purposes of setback measurement, swimming pools and tennis courts shall include all surrounding decking or paving, and vertical supports for screen enclosures. B. Pools shall be enclosed by a fence a minimum of four (4) feet in height, which must be in place prior to the filling of the pool. In addition, pools shall meet all other requirements of the City’s most currently adopted edition of the International Property Maintenance Code. C. No swimming pool or tennis court permitted under this Section shall be operated as a business or a private club. March 21, 2018 VI-35 D. Lighting for pools and tennis courts shall be located and installed so that no direct light is visible from adjoining properties. 608.04. Antennas. A. Antennas shall be an accessory use only, and shall not be the principal use of any property. B. Residential TV antennae shall not exceed 30 feet in height; all other antennae shall not extend above 60 feet in height, unless otherwise specified by this Ordinance. C. Antennae shall not be located forward of the front building line or within a required side street setback area. D. Antennae not mounted on or affixed to a principal structure shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to its height. E. No more than two (2) antennas shall be permitted for each lot or development site. F. See Also Section 602. 608.05. Subdivision Amenities. It is the intent of this Section to allow the provision of recreational amenities within a subdivision as uses, which are secondary and incidental to the principal residential use. Such features are intended to be low in intensity, have minimal impacts on neighboring properties, and serve only residents of the subdivision in which it is located or other developments that are directly adjacent. Amenities approved under this Section may not be subject to the parking requirements, nor shall they generally require conditional use approval by the Planning Commission. Upon submission of a scaled drawing showing all proposed improvements, the Planning Director shall approve subdivision amenities if they meet the requirements listed below. Those not meeting the provisions of this Section shall be evaluated as principal uses and shall be subject to all applicable regulations. A. Amenities that may be approved under this Section include swimming pools, playgrounds, parks, and courts or fields for particular sports such as tennis, shuffleboard, softball, basketball, and volleyball. Specifically excluded are golf courses, golf driving ranges, and miniature golf. B. All amenities shall be located on lots or parcels whose recreational purpose is clearly identified on the recorded subdivision plat. Where an amenity is proposed on an existing lot, which is not designated for recreational purposes, it shall be processed by the Planning Department as a conditional use under Section 1003. March 21, 2018 VI-36  C. Structures shall be limited to one (1) per parcel, shall be set back 25 feet from all lot lines and shall not exceed 1000 square feet in size inclusive of restroom facilities. Any recreational parcel containing a structure shall have frontage on a public road within the development. D. If required for the overall development, bufferyards and landscaping shall be prorated for the amenity site. E. A minimum of three (3) and a maximum of five (5) off-street parking shall be provided.. Vehicles and/or equipment used by employees shall be stored in an enclosed structure. F. Amenities that occupy required open space within a Master Planned and/or a Special District Development shall be limited to those uses that are allowed under Section 415. 609. Temporary Uses. Temporary uses are permitted only as expressly provided in this Section. No temporary use shall be established unless a zoning certificate evidencing the compliance of such use with the provisions of this Section and other applicable provisions of this Ordinance shall have first been issued, as provided in Article X. 609.01. General Regulations. Temporary uses as detailed below shall be subject to the following, unless otherwise provided for in this Section:  A. Notarized, written authorization from property owner with deed to property attached. B. Documentation from the Tuscaloosa County Health Department must be provided that adequate arrangements for temporary sanitary facilities have been made. C. No permanent or temporary lighting shall be installed without an electrical permit and inspection. D. All uses shall be confined to the dates specified in the permit. E. Hours of operation shall be confined to those specified in the permit. F. The site shall be cleared of all debris at the end of the special event and cleared of all temporary structures within seven (7) days after the closing event. March 21, 2018 VI-37 G. Public parking for the exclusive use of the facility shall be provided, and a stabilized drive to the parking area shall be maintained. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to guide traffic to these areas and to prevent patrons from unlawful parking. H. Traffic control arrangements required by the Northport Public Safety Department, Police Division in the vicinity at major intersections shall be the responsibility of the applicant. I. Property owners shall be responsible for restitution and/or repair of any damage resulting to any public right-of-way or property as a result of the event. J. Serving of alcoholic beverages shall not be permitted without a permit from the Northport City Council. 609.02. Use Limitations. A. The principal use or structure, together with any temporary uses or structures, shall not jointly exceed the ISR or any standard contained in Article IV. B. No signs in connection with a temporary use shall be permitted except as specified in Section 609.03. 609.03. Particular Temporary Uses Permitted. The following are temporary uses, which are subject to the specified regulations and standards, in addition to the other requirements specified in this Ordinance. A. Carnival or circus. 1. Permitted only in Commercial Districts (C-3 and C-6). 2. Maximum length of permit shall be 15 days. 3. No structure or equipment shall be permitted within 500 feet of any residential property line. 4. Permitted sign shall have a maximum size of 32 sq. ft.  B. Christmas tree sales. 1. Permitted only in Commercial (C) and Agricultural (AG) districts. 2. Maximum length of permit for display and open-lot sales shall be 45 days. 3. Permitted sign shall have a maximum size of 32 sq. ft.  March 21, 2018 VI-38  C. On-Site Contractor’s office and construction equipment sheds. 1. Permitted in any district where use is incidental to a construction project. Office or shed shall not contain sleeping or cooking accommodations. 2. Maximum length of permit shall be one (1) year. 3. Office or shed shall be removed upon completion of construction project. 4. Signs shall be permitted only in accordance with Article VIII. D. Events of public interest. 1. Permitted only Commercial (C), and Agricultural (AG) Districts; and Downtown/Riverfront Districts as follows: SMR, HDC, BAN, BAS, WR, RE . 2. Events may include but are not limited to outdoor concerts, auctions and athletic events and associated concessions and activities. 3. Permitted sign shall have a maximum size of 32 sq. ft.  E. Fireworks Stand. (Section removed by Ordinance 1798 passed on 2-18-13)  F. Modular Buildings as Temporary Uses. 1. Business Establishments: a) Permitted only while a permanent structure is actively being constructed. b) Must be a modular building (not manufactured). c) Permitted only in Commercial (C-3 & C-6) Districts. d) Maximum length of permit shall be six (6) months. Subsequent 90 day extensions may be granted by request to the Planning Commission e) Any proposed sign for the temporary location shall be approved by the Planning Director and have a maximum size of 32 sq. ft.  2. Classrooms: a) Temporary location shall be treated as a conditional uses and shown on a site drawing filed with the Planning Department. b) Must be underpinned and kept free from weeds and debris. c) Maximum length of permit shall be one (1) year. One extension may be granted by request to the Planning Commission. Further extensions will require recommendation of the Commission and approval by the City Council. March 21, 2018 VI-39 d) May be a manufactured building if placement is for one year or less; must be modular if planned placement is for more than one year. G. Real estate sales office. 1. Permitted in any district for any new subdivision approved in accordance with Northport Subdivision Regulations. The office may not contain sleeping or cooking accommodations. A model home may be used as a temporary sales office for the duration of the temporary use zoning certificate. 2. Maximum length of permit shall be one (1) year. 3. Office shall be removed upon completion of the development of the subdivision. H. Religious tent meeting. 1. Permitted only in Office & Institutional (O-I), Commercial (C), and Agricultural (AG) Districts. 2. Maximum length of permit shall be 15 days. 3. Permitted sign shall have a maximum size of 32 sq. ft. I. Sale of farm produce. 1. Permitted in Commercial (C), and Agricultural (AG) Districts; and Downtown/Riverfront Districts as follows: SMR, HDC, BAN, BAS . Prohibited in Manufacturing (M), and Residential (R) Districts. 2. Maximum length of permit shall be one (1) year. 3. Sales areas, including the produce stands, shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from the nearest right-of-way of any street or highway. 4. No permanent structures shall be permitted without an approved site plan meeting all the requirements Section 1002. 4. Permitted sign shall have a maximum size of 32 sq. ft.  J. Temporary shelter. 1. When fire or natural disaster has rendered a single-family residence unfit for human habitation, the temporary use of a manufactured home located on the  March 21, 2018 VI-40 single-family lot during rehabilitation of the original residence or construction of a new residence is permitted subject to the following additional regulations: 1. Appropriate building permits must be issued prior to location of temporary shelter on the site. 2. Required water and sanitary facilities must be provided. 3. Maximum length of permit shall be six (6) months, but the Chief Building Inspector may extend the permit for a period or periods not to exceed 60 days in the event of circumstances beyond the control of the owner. Requests for the extension shall be made in writing at least 15 days prior to expiration of the original permit. In no case shall the length of the original permit plus all extensions exceed one (1) year. 4. The manufactured home shall be removed from the property within 14 days of issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy for the new or rehabilitated residence. K. Tent sale/outdoor sales activity. 1. The outdoor storage or display of merchandise shall be exempted from these requirements under either of the following conditions:  a) merchandise occupies an outdoor display area, which is permanent in nature and designated as such on an approved site plan;  b) merchandise is located in a temporary display area which does not occupy required parking spaces, driveway aisles, or required bufferyards, and customers must enter the building to make a purchase. 2. Tent sales and similar activities are permitted only in Commercial (C) Districts, on property developed with a principal commercial use, with proper pedestrian and vehicular access. They shall be prohibited on vacant property. 3. Where the temporary sales activity constitutes a conditional use on the site, it shall not be permitted unless conditional use approval has been recommended by the Planning Commission and granted by the City Council. 4. The applicant shall submit a site plan specifying the location of all tents, temporary structures, equipment, and merchandise on display. 5. Permitted sign shall have a maximum size of 32 sq. ft.  6. All electrical connections shall be inspected and approved by the Building Inspections Department. March 21, 2018 VI-41 7. The Planning Director and/or City Engineer may establish additional requirements as necessary to minimize hazards and promote efficient traffic circulation on the site. 8. The maximum duration of the Zoning Certificate shall be 15 days. A maximum of four (4) permits per calendar year may be authorized, and at least 30 days shall elapse between the expiration of one permit and the approval of another. Section 610. Off-street Parking, General Requirements. A. The requirements listed in this Section specify the minimum number of off-street parking spaces. B. For all required off-street parking, the minimum size of each standard parking stall shall be nine (9) feet by twenty (20) feet, exclusive of aisle width, which shall be delineated by striping or other similar means. Parking other than perpendicular parking shall comply with the standards set out in the International Building Code. C. Unless otherwise noted, all parking spaces required herein, including adequate driveways and maneuvering areas shall be improved with a suitable, hard surface, permanent type of pavement. D. If the required number of spaces is not a whole number, the number of required spaces shall be rounded up to the next higher whole number. E. Except as provided in Section 610.02, all required parking spaces shall be provided on the same development site for which they are required; location of required spaces on adjoining property or across a public right-of-way shall be prohibited. F. Truck loading spaces shall be an accessible rectangle having a width of twelve (12) feet and a length of forty (40) feet. Any overhead obstructions shall have a vertical clearance of fifteen (15) feet. G. All parking spaces shall be delineated by appropriate fixed curbing, painted lines (a minimum of four inches (4”) wide), or other fixed markers. H. Alternate forms of parking (i.e. compact spaces) other than that defined as “standard” above shall be considered by the staff on a case by case basis. Under no circumstances shall such parking comprise more than fifteen (15) percent of the overall required parking. I. In all applicable districts, the following off street loading requirements shall apply:  Residential Uses None Required  March 21, 2018 VI-42 Commercial Uses   less than 25,000 G.S.F. : One Space Commercial Uses   greater than 25,000 G.S.F. : One space for each 25,000 G.S.F. or portion thereof. (i.e. 60,000 G.S.F. = 3 spaces)  J. Queuing Spaces shall be nine feet (9’) by twenty-four feet (24’)  610.01. Residential Parking. A. See Section 603 for the off-street parking requirements for residential uses. B. Reduction in number of off-street parking spaces. When a development is specifically designed to be used for senior citizens, all such units shall be required to provide a minimum of one (1) parking space for each such unit. C. Required parking for any residential dwelling unit within a subdivision shall be provided within the boundaries of the lot on which it is located. D. Parking for single-family detached dwellings on fee simple lots is exempt from the striping requirements set forth in Section 610. 610.02. Non-residential Parking. On-site parking will not be required for nonresidential uses in the Historic Downtown Core (HDC) district. For all other district, the following minimum number of parking spaces shall be required of the nonresidential uses specified below. Reference herein to “employee(s) on the largest work shift” means the maximum number of employees employed at the facility regardless of the time period during which this occurs and regardless of whether any such person is a full-time employee. The largest work shift may be a particular day of the week or a lunch or dinner period in the case of a restaurant. The term “capacity” as used herein means the maximum number of persons that may be accommodated by the use as determined by its design or by fire code regulations, whichever is greater. A. Parking Requirements by Land Use Category. The following criteria shall be used when no Specified Use Standard has been provided in Section 610.02 B. below. 1. Agricultural uses: one (1) space per employee on the largest shift. The Planning Commission may, based upon the type and intensity of the agricultural use, waive the requirement for parking to be of hard surface pavement. March 21, 2018 VI-43  2. Agricultural support uses: one (1) space per 750 square feet of gross floor area. 3. Commercial and entertainment uses: one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area; for uses exceeding 100,000 square feet, one (1) space per 300 square feet of gross floor area. 4. Commercial/recreational uses: one (1) space per four (4) patrons to the maximum design capacity of the facility. 5. Commercial support uses: one (1) space per 750 square feet of gross floor area. 6. Extraction uses: one (1) space per employee on the largest shift. 7. Industrial uses: one (1) space per 1000 square feet of adjusted gross floor area, plus one (1) space per company vehicle normally stored on premises. 8. Institutional, indoor recreational, and special residential uses: one (1) space per four (4) patrons to the maximum capacity. 9. Nursery uses: one (1) space per 300 square feet of gross floor area. Plus one (1) space per 2000-sq. ft. of outdoor display area. 10. Office uses: one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area. 11. Outdoor recreational uses: one (1) space per four (4) patrons at design capacity. 12. Public services uses: one (1) space per employee on the largest work shift, plus one (1) space per company vehicle normally stored on the premises. 13. Recreational rental uses: one and one-half (1.5) spaces per rental site; plus one space per 250 square feet of office area. 14. Road service uses: one (1) space per 150 square feet of gross floor area. Road Service uses utilizing a drive-in window shall provide queuing space for at least six (6) vehicles from the start of the stacking lane to the service window; and at least one and one half (1.5) vehicles from the service window to the exit to a public right-of-way. B. Parking Requirements for Specified Uses. March 21, 2018 VI-44 1. Airport: one (1) space for each four (4) aircraft that can be parked or stored at the facility, whether indoors or outdoors; plus one (1) space for each four (4) seats in waiting areas and restaurants; plus one (1) space for each 250 square feet of office and other administrative or support uses. 2. Amusement center: one (1) space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area. 3. Assembly, Places of: one (1) space per four (4) seats of maximum capacity. 4. Assisted living facilities: one (1) space per dwelling unit. 5. Athletic field: 20 spaces for every diamond or athletic field, or one (1) space for every four (4) seats of design capacity, whichever is greater. 6. Auction house: one (1) space for each four (4) seats of design capacity, whether indoors or outdoors. 7. Auto parts store: one (1) space per 300 square feet of gross floor area. 8. Auto rental: one (1) space per 400 square feet of gross floor area. 9. Automated, freestanding walk-up facility: one (1) space per facility. If accessory to another use, no additional spaces are required. 10. Banks: one (1) space per 300 square feet of gross floor area, plus four (4) stacking spaces per drive-in lane. 11. Beauty and barber shops: two (2) spaces per chair or one (1) space per 150 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is larger. 12. Bicycle sales and repair shop: one (1) space per 300 square feet of gross floor area. 13. Boarding house: one (1) space per room. 14. Bowling alley: four (4) spaces per lane, plus any additional space required for restaurant facilities, game rooms and other accessory uses on the site. 15. Car wash (full service): five (5) employee spaces; plus four (4) stacking spaces for each wash stall. 16. Car wash (self-serve): one (2) stacking spaces per stall (including stall); plus one drying space per stall. 17. Carpet store: See Furniture Store. March 21, 2018 VI-45  18. Church: See Assembly, Places of  19. Community, civic or recreation center: one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area. 20. Contractor’s office/storage yard: one (1) space per 250 square feet of office area; plus one (1) space per 1,500 square feet of indoor storage area; plus one (1) space per 4,000 square feet of outdoor storage area. 21. Convenience store and/or self-service gas station (no vehicle repairs): one (1) space per 150 square feet of gross floor area. Service areas at pumps may be counted toward required parking spaces. In no instance shall a required parking space conflict with vehicles being fueled or awaiting fuel. Convenience stores with on-site or attached eating establishments shall also meet requirements for restaurant parking. (See Section 611.03 “Shared Parking”)  22. Day care center or nursery school: one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area; plus one (1) off-street parking or loading space per ten (10) children. Maximum enrollment and number of employees shall be noted on the site plan. Parking or loading spaces designated for children shall be located such that there is direct pedestrian access into the facility without crossing streets or driveways. 23. Drive-in theater: one (1) space per automobile station, plus one (1) space per employee. 24. Drug and alcohol treatment center: one (1) space per two (2) beds and one (1) space per staff member, based on state licensing requirements and maximum design capacity. 25. Dry cleaning facility: one (1) space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area, but in no case less than three (3). 26. Employment agency: one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area. 27. Exterminator: one (1) space per 800 square feet of gross floor area, plus one space per company vehicle. 28. Funeral home: one (1) space per four (4) patron seats in each chapel or viewing area, plus one (1) space per 300 square feet of office space. 29. Furniture store: one (1) space for each 750 square feet of gross floor area. 30. Gas station, full-service: one (1) space per 150 square feet of retail area, plus one (1) space per service bay, plus one (1) space per 250 square feet of office  March 21, 2018 VI-46 space. In no instance shall a required parking space conflict with vehicles being fueled or awaiting fuel. Service areas at pumps may be count toward parking spaces. 31. Golf courses (nine and eighteen hole): 35 spaces per nine (9) holes. Parking shall be provided for other uses accessory to a golf course (e.g., restaurants, pro shops, driving ranges) at the rate of 50 percent of normal requirements. 32. Golf driving range: one and one-half (1.5) spaces per tee. 33. Golf, par three: 25 spaces per nine (9) holes. 34. Grocery or supermarket (stand-alone): one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area. 35. Health club/spa/gymnasium: one (1) space per 275 square feet of gross floor area. 36. Hospital: two (2) spaces per patient bed, plus two (2) spaces per emergency room examination table or bed  37. Hotel/motel without restaurant, bar, or meeting rooms: One space per sleeping room, plus two for office staff. Hotel/motel with restaurant, bar, or meeting rooms: One space per sleeping room, two for office staff, plus one space per 120 square feet of customer service area in restaurant, bar, or meeting rooms. 38. Junkyards: two (2) space per acre of land area. 39. Kennel: one (1) space per 500 square feet of floor area, but not less than three (3) spaces. 40. Laundromat: one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area. 41. Lumberyard or Home Improvement Center: one (1) space per 500 square feet of gross floor area, plus one (1) space per 1,500 square feet of outdoor storage/display area. 42. Machinery sales (includes cars, boats, RVs, Heavy Equipment, tractors, etc. ): one (1) space per 400 square feet of gross floor area, plus two (2) spaces per service bay, plus one (1) space per 2,500 square feet of outdoor display/storage area. (See Also Vehicle Sales & Service)  43. Medical offices: one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area. March 21, 2018 VI-47 44. Miniature golf: one and one half (1.5) space per hole. 45. Mini-warehouse: a minimum of three (3) and maximum of five (5) spaces shall be provided in the vicinity of the office and a 27 foot minimum drive aisle to all storage unit doors. 46. Movie theatre: See Assembly, Places of 47. Nursing homes: one (1) space per three (3) beds. 48. Office Warehouse: one (1) space per 250 square feet of office area, plus one (1) space per 1,500 square feet of gross warehouse floor area. 49. Outdoor theater: one (1) space per four (4) patrons to the maximum capacity of the facility inclusive of both indoor and outdoor capability. 50. Parcel delivery service: one (1) space per 750 square feet of gross floor area. 51. Plumbing and heating supply: one (1) space per 750 square feet of gross floor area. See Also Contractors office. 52. Printing and publishing plant: one (1) space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area. 53. Private clubs: one (1) space per four (4) persons to the maximum capacity of the facility. 54. Public assembly hall: See Assembly, Places of  55. Radio/television station: one (1) space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area. 56. Recreational vehicle park: one (1) space per recreational vehicle site, plus one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area of permanent habitable structures on the development site. 57. Restaurant, fast food: one (1) space per 100 square feet of gross floor area. Sufficient space on-site shall be provided to accommodate queuing vehicles. Such space shall at a minimum provide capacity for four (4) vehicles from the start of the stacking lane to the order board; two (2) vehicles from the order board to the service window; and one and one-half (1.5) vehicles from the service window to the exit to a public right-of-way. In no instance shall stacked vehicles block primary ingress/egress to the site. March 21, 2018 VI-48 58. Restaurant, standard: one (1) space per four (4) patron seats or one (1) space per 150 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater. (Including Outdoor Seating)  59. Schools:  a) Elementary: five (5) spaces, plus one (1) space per classroom or one (1) space per six (6) seats of largest assembly room, whichever is greater. b) Junior high: five (5) spaces, plus one (1) space per classroom or one (1) space per six (6) seats of largest assembly room, whichever is greater. c) Senior high: ten (10) spaces, plus one (1) space per classroom, plus one (1) space for each five (5) students or one (1) space per ten (10) seats of largest assembly room, whichever is greater. d) College: one (1) space for each five (5) students (based on the maximum design capacity) plus two (2) spaces per three (3) employees. 60. School, commercial or trade: one (1) space for each five (5) students (based on the maximum design capacity) plus two (2) spaces per three (3) employees. 61. Shopping center: one (1) space per 250 square feet of gross floor area. In a shopping mall, common pedestrian areas, except food courts, may be excluded from the calculation. Shopping centers over 650,000 square feet shall have one (1) space per 300 square feet of gross floor area. 62. Skating rink, ice or roller: one (1) space per four (4) patrons to maximum capacity. 63. Swimming facility: one (1) space per 200 square feet of gross water area. 64. Taverns, dance halls, nightclubs, and lounges: one (1) space per 75 square feet of gross floor area. 65. Telecommunications tower: one (1) off-street parking space to accommodate a maintenance vehicle for unoccupied structure. Occupied structures must comply with parking requirements as set out under Public Service uses. 66. Tennis, racquetball, and handball courts: two (2) spaces per court. 67. Theaters and auditoriums: See Assembly, Places of  March 21, 2018 VI-49 68. Truck terminal: one (1) space per truck normally parked on the premises, plus one (1) space per 500 square feet of office floor area. 69. Vehicle sales and service accessory to vehicle sales: One (1) space per 2,000 square feet of interior or exterior sales, display, or storage area up to a total of 20 spaces. 70. Vehicle repair and maintenance services: one (1) space per 400 square feet of office and indoor display area, plus one (1) space per service bay (excluding bay). 71. Veterinary office: one (1) space per 500 square feet of gross floor area. 72. Warehouse: one (1) space per 2,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one (1) space per company vehicle normally stored on the premises. 610.03. Shared Parking. In order to reduce impervious surface and resulting stormwater runoff, establishments may be allowed to share up to 20 percent of the required parking spaces. In all cases where parking is to be shared by uses on different lots, the subject parcels or lots shall be adjacent to one another, have adequate cross access, and in no case shall properties bound under a shared parking agreement, or plan, be separated by a public right-of-way. (See Figure 16) The intention to share parking facilities must be represented to the Planning Staff prior to site plan approval by means of a written agreement between the various property owners, or in the case of a single owner, an overall shared parking plan for the properties or development sites. Said agreement or plan shall be binding upon all subsequent purchasers, inheritors, subjects and assigns. Should there be a change in the use within any individual structure or location which is bound by a shared parking agreement or plan, the transfer of the shared parking agreement shall be subject to the review and approval of the Planning Director, or at his/her discretion, the review and approval of the Planning Commission and City Attorney. 610.04. Reduction in the Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for Large Uses (over 500,000 square feet of gross floor area). In order to prevent the establishment of a greater number of parking spaces than are actually needed to meet the particular needs of a development site containing over 500,000 square feet of gross floor area, a reduction in the number of required off-street parking spaces may be permitted. This reduction shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:  A. A maximum reduction of one (1) parking space per every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area or 20 percent of the total spaces required can be permitted. The site plan shall indicate the location and dimensions of the parking area provided, and shall include calculations showing the number of parking spaces eliminated pursuant to this Section which otherwise would have been required. March 21, 2018 VI-50 B. Sufficient area must be reserved to provide for the total number of off-street parking spaces required by Section 610. The purpose of this reservation is to insure adequate area to meet any future need for additional parking spaces. Prior to site plan approval, the applicant shall sign a written statement agreeing to provide additional spaces up to the full amount required by Section 610 upon notification by the Planning Director and/or the Planning Commission that such spaces are needed. This statement shall be provided to the Planning Department and City Attorney in letter form and shall be reproduced on the site plan. C. The reserved parking area shall be shown on the site plan and shall be grassed, landscaped or otherwise covered in vegetation. It shall not include signs or other structures, drainage or percolation fields for sewage disposal, areas exceeding 12 percent slope, required bufferyards, areas of general or off-street parking landscaping required under Article V, setbacks, or areas which would otherwise be unsuitable for parking spaces due to the physical characteristics of the land or other requirements of this Ordinance. 611. Lighting. All lighting must be directed and/or shielded so as to focus lighting onto the use as established and away from adjacent property and areas of pedestrian and vehicular traffic including, but not limited to, sidewalks and streets. All lighting fixtures incorporated into non-enclosed structures (i.e. gas pump canopies, car washes, etc.) must be fully recessed into the underside of such structures. Light or glare from any operation and all lighting for parking areas or for the external illumination of buildings or grounds shall be directed or located in such a manner as to focus lighting onto the use and away from adjacent property and areas of pedestrian and vehicular traffic including, but not limited to, sidewalks and streets. (See Figure 17) A lighting plan must be provided with all development plans (i.e. site plans and subdivision plats) showing, at a minimum, placement of all lighting structures, height of structures, and illumination levels taking into account landscaping and other possible obstructions. Section 612. Flag Lots. A flag lot is a lot that has minimal frontage on a publicly owned and maintained street, whose width some distance back from the street boundary line meets all Ordinance requirements. (See Figure 5) The purpose of flag lots is to reduce the number of direct access points to arterial and collector roads. Flag lots may be permitted, even though they do not meet the minimum lot width requirements at the street boundary line, subject to the following conditions:   March 21, 2018 VI-51 A. Flag lots shall be limited to single family residential use only. No more than one (1) dwelling unit shall be authorized for any one (1) flag lot access strip. B. A flag lot may be used within a subdivision to provide a lot fronting on an arterial or collector road with access to an internal subdivision street. In such cases, vehicular access to the lot from the arterial or collector shall be prohibited. In any event, no more than 10 percent of the lots in any subdivision may be approved as flag lots. C. Flag lots providing access to arterial or collector roads shall be prohibited. D. Flag lot “stems” or access strips shall be at least 25 feet in width as measured at the road frontage. The land area within the access strip shall not count toward the required minimum lot size. E. Where otherwise consistent with the provisions of this section, flag lots may be created in groups not exceeding two (2); in such cases, access strips shall be adjacent to each other and form a total width of 50 feet. A distance of 500 feet shall separate non- adjacent flag lot access strips on the same side of the road. All access strips shall be at least 25 feet from an intersection. G. The Planning Director shall identify the front, side and rear lot lines of a flag lot for determining yard requirements, allowable locations of accessory structures, and other purposes. Section 613. Fences and walls. In non-residential zones, no wall or fence shall exceed a height of ten (10) feet. In residential zones, no wall or fence shall exceed eight (8) feet. No fence or wall may project into the unobstructed space required at a street intersection, as determined by the City Engineer. In a front yard, walls and fences shall be architecturally compatible with the style, materials, and colors of the principal building. Solid wood fences are permitted in rear and side yards only. No part of a fence in a required front yard shall be within ten (10) feet of the curb line, nor shall it be on the public right-of-way. In residential zones, no fence in a required front yard shall exceed four feet in height. For the purposes of the section, the front yard shall be defined as the yard on the side of the front entrance of the residence. (See Figure 20.) All fences and walls must be permitted. Maintenance and repairs that do not change the original dimensions, or replace or alter less than 50% of the fencing materials do not need a permit. If the property abuts a public street, the finished side of the fence shall face the street. April 2, 2012 VII-1             ARTICLE VII. CORE CITY ZONING & DESIGN STANDARDS  700. Background In 2008, the City of Northport embarked upon a planning process for the city’s downtown, riverfront, and surrounding historic neighborhoods. Based upon extensive public input, this plan was enthusiastically supported by the community. It is the intent of this zoning and design standards document to help implement that plan for this area, which is now referred to as the “Core City” for planning purposes. Only by codifying the key ideas of the plan can it be insured that its future implementation is consistent with the community’s collective vision for the area. 701. Districts & Sub-Districts The City’s 2008 Downtown and Riverfront Plan established a total of fourteen (14) sub-districts for planning purposes. Each sub-district reflected the plan’s intended primary land uses, physical form, and development character. In preparing the zoning and design standards, two key issue categories emerged for each sub- district: 1) site design standards and 2) zoning and architectural design standards. Site design standards address issues such as access, parking, loading areas, lighting and landscaping. Zoning and architectural design standards address issues such as permitted land uses, building heights, setbacks and architectural design. While each sub-district had relatively distinct zoning and architectural design standards, it was determined that many of the sub-districts could effectively use the same site design standards. Consequently, each sub-district has been grouped with a district category, and each sub-district within that district category shares the same site design standards. The sub-districts are listed below and delineated on the map on the following page. Urban Mixed Use Districts Urban Residential Districts South Main Riverfront District Historic Neighborhood District Historic Downtown Core District New Urban Neighborhood District Residential/Commercial/Institutional District Multi-Family Housing District Bridge Avenue South District Neighborhood Centers District Employment Districts   Light Industrial District Suburban Mixed Use District Working Riverfront District Bridge Avenue North District   Ecological Districts Institutional District  River’s Edge District Institutional District  Conservation District  April 2, 2012 VII-2        FIGURE 7-1 CORE CITY ZONING DISTRICTS  April 2, 2012 VII-3  702. Street Types  Whether walking, cycling, driving or through some other means of transit, most people experience the built environment as viewed from streets. They are not only important for transportation, but their design is critical to the function and character of the places they traverse. Consequently, this zoning and design standard document for the Core City starts with a review of street types. A total of eleven (11) street types and two (2) alley types have been designated. The variables between each type include the number of driving lanes, the number of parking lanes, parking lane angles, sidewalks, street trees, and the dimensions of all of these elements. The street types are delineated on the map below. April 2, 2012 VII-4 The following pages provide illustrations of the various street type cross sections. With regard to sidewalks, the materials and design will depend upon the specific location. Brick (or similar looking pavers) and concrete should be the two primary materials. Depending upon the location, some sidewalks might be all brick, some all concrete, and some a combination. For example, the blocks on Main Avenue near the river should be all brick to match the existing streetscape near Main and Fifth. On the other hand, concrete can be scored and colored to add visual interest and may be more appropriate in other areas. Regardless of the potential options, within any single block face, the design and materials should be consistent to avoid a random mixture lacking visual cohesiveness. Within the Urban Mixed Use, Urban Residential, and Ecological Districts, utilities should be buried underground. April 2, 2012 VII-5    April 2, 2012 VII-6    April 2, 2012 VII-7    April 2, 2012 VII-8    April 2, 2012 VII-9    April 2, 2012 VII-10      April 2, 2012 VII-11   April 2, 2012 VII-12 703. URBAN MIXED USE DISTRICTS  703.01. Site Design Standards: Urban Mixed Use Districts These site design standards shall apply to the following five urban mixed use districts within Northport’s core city area: South Main Riverfront District, Historic Downtown Core District, Residential/Commercial/Institutional District, Bridge Avenue South District, and Neighborhood Centers District. A. Access & Parking  1. Vehicular Access. Access to parking areas shall be limited to rear alleys where possible to avoid the proliferation of driveways along streets. When driveways accessed from streets are deemed necessary, they shall be accessed from secondary streets rather than primary streets, when possible. The “primary street” is the street designed for and/or experiencing the higher level of traffic relative to the “secondary street.” Driveways shall be located along the edge of the lot. When opportunities occur, shared access driveways should be provided along property boundaries. Multiple adjacent driveways shall be avoided. No more than one (1) driveway shall be allowed per property unless the parking lot’s size and traffic projections warrant a second driveway. 2. Cross-Access. Direct vehicular access between adjoining properties shall be provided where possible as an alternative to indirect access via the associated street. Such access shall be located within the rear half of the lot, and may exist in the form of an alley or an internal driveway connecting the parking areas. 3. Driveway Widths. Driveway widths shall not exceed twelve (12) feet for single- lane driveways or twenty-four (24) feet for two-lane driveways. No driveways may have more than two (2) lanes at their point of intersection with the street. 4. Drive-Through Windows/Facilities. Drive-through windows/facilities are permitted only if: 1) they are not visible from a public street, and 2) they adhere to the other vehicular access and driveway width standards of this code. 5. Parking Amounts. See Section 611 of the zoning ordinance for parking standards which are based upon specific land uses and building areas. Within urban mixed use districts, seventy-five (75) percent of the amount of parking otherwise required by City codes is required. No more than one hundred and twenty-five (125) percent of the amount of parking otherwise required by City codes shall be allowed within mixed use districts. Parking requirements may be waived, either wholly or partially, for properties within six hundred (600) feet of a public parking facility. Designated on-street parking located directly adjacent to a property, excluding parking on the other side of the street, shall be credited toward meeting the property’s on-site parking requirements. Requirements for minimum amounts of parking are completely waived within the Historic Downtown Core District and the Residential / Commercial / Institutional District. April 2, 2012 VII-13 6. Parking Location. Parking lots shall not be located between a building and a street or between a building and the riverfront unless they are located in such a manner (below grade, etc.) so as to not be visible from the street or the riverfront. Parking lots shall not front onto primary streets, which consist of Main Avenue, First Street, Fifth Street, and Bridge Avenue (south of Rice Mine Road). In the case of a corner lot on Main and Fifth, the parking shall front onto Fifth rather than Main. Where parking lots front onto secondary streets, they shall be sufficiently screened per the parking design standards below. These parking location requirements may be waived for properties fronting Rice Mine Road. 7. Parking Design. Peripheral Screening: A year-round screening treatment shall be provided between any parking area and adjacent street. The screening area shall be a minimum of five (5) feet in width. While it should visually obscure pavement and vehicles and provide shade, for security purposes, it should not completely preclude views into the parking lot. Screening should include shade trees with an average maximum spacing of twenty (20) feet. Screening shall also include a low fence or wall, and/or shrubs with a minimum height of three (3) feet at the time of planting. Fencing shall be wood or metal, but shall not include chain link. Walls shall be brick, stone or concrete clad in stucco. Shrubs shall be evergreens. Trees shall be a minimum caliper of 2.5 inches at the time of planting. Internal Landscaping: Landscaped islands or projections shall be provided to include one (1) or more shade trees at the end of all parking rows and within long parking rows. For each parking row, there shall be no more than ten (10) consecutive parking spaces between landscape islands/projections. Trees shall be a minimum caliper of 2.5 inches at the time of planting. April 2, 2012 VII-14 8. Parking Structures. See the section addressing building design for the relevant district for parking structure standards. B. Loading & Refuse  1. Location. Loading areas and refuse storage areas shall be located behind buildings and not readily visible from a street. 2. Screening. To the extent that site conditions and street configurations require, fencing and/or landscaping shall be used to screen loading areas from streets. Refuse storage areas shall be completely screened from views both external and internal to the site with the provision of a wall or solid fence, and they shall include a screening gate for access to the refuse containers. Walls or fencing used for screening shall be visually compatible with the materials and design of the corresponding building, and it shall be taller than the height of the refuse containers, but no taller than ten (10) feet. C. Lighting Freestanding lights shall not exceed sixteen (16) feet in height for all urban mixed use areas, including streets, parking and pedestrian areas. Fixtures shall be hooded or shielded to minimize light trespass, reduce glare and minimize visibility from adjacent properties. Fixtures shall not direct light onto adjacent properties. D. Street & Streetscape Design The design of streets and their streetscapes, including driving lanes, on-street parking sidewalks, landscaping and other features, shall be governed by the street classification map and corresponding cross-section designs (See Pages VII-3 through VII-11). E. Service Stations Automobile service stations are conditional uses within specified urban mixed use districts. In addition to other conditions that might be applied, they must meet the following standards:  1. Pump Locations. Fuel pumps shall not be located between the associate building and the primary street. They shall be located behind the building and not readily visible from the primary street, although they may be visible from secondary streets in the case of corner lots. 2. Building Design. The service station building shall be designed to appear as a conventional retail building. 3. Canopies & Lighting. The ceiling of canopies above fuel pumps should be a maximum of fourteen (14) feet in height. Light fixtures mounted on canopies shall be recessed so that the lens cover is recessed or flush with the ceiling of the canopy or  April 2, 2012 VII-15 shielded by the fixture or the edge of the canopy so that light is restrained to no more that 85 degrees from vertical. 703.02. South Main Riverfront District. It is the intent of this district to provide a mixed-use area that is urban in form, pedestrian friendly; human scaled and provides visual and physical access to the river. A. Land Uses  1. Permitted Principal Uses: Retail, restaurants, entertainment, artist studios, offices, personal services, professional services, lodging, multi-family or attached housing, daycare/pre-school, institutional/civic uses (not exceeding a 5,000 sq. ft. building footprint), and parking garages if: a) located behind a building, or b) fronted with round floor retail and/or services on the Main Avenue and First Street frontage. Multi-family and attached housing buildings shall feature at least four (4) units per building. 2. Permitted Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are permitted when meeting each of the following standards:  A. Accessory use is customarily accessory, clearly incidental and subordinate to permitted principal uses; B. Accessory use is wholly located on the same lot as the permitted principal use or on a contiguous lot in the same ownership; and C. The use does not involve operations not in keeping with the character of the area. 3. Permitted Conditional Uses: Permitting the following conditional uses is a discretionary decision of the City and may be approved with any reasonable conditions related to the use’s location, design and operation. Permitted conditional uses are limited to the following: passenger terminals and utility substations. 4. Prohibited Uses: Ground floor street-fronting housing is prohibited on Main Avenue. Auto-oriented uses, such as service stations, car washes, and automobile dealerships, are prohibited. B. Building Scale & Placement  1. Maximum Building Height: Sixty (60) feet. Building heights shall be measured from the average grade of the front façade to either: a) the top of the parapet on the front façade of flat-roofed building; or b) the top of the eave on the front façade of pitched- roofed buildings. Non-habitable vertical architectural elements, such as steeples and cupola, shall not be counted toward building height calculations. April 2, 2012 VII-16 2. Commercial Ground Floor Height: The minimum ground floor height of buildings in which the first floor will be used for commercial purposes shall be fourteen (14) feet. The ground floor height shall be measured from the finished floor to the ceiling. 3. Railroad Trestle Visibility: Between Main Avenue and the railroad within this district, no building shall be higher than seventy-five (75) percent of the height of the railroad tracks, as measured from the average elevation along the property line adjacent to the railroad right-of-way. 4. Front Setback: Minimum: Zero (0) feet from public right-of-way line Maximum: Ten (10) feet from public right-of-way line  Exceptions from the front setback standards are permitted for the following cases: • Buildings featuring ground floor residential front onto a street other than Main Avenue as long as parking lots are not within the setback. Such exceptions shall feature a front courtyard design in which at least one third of the building’s frontage adheres to the zero (0) to ten (10) foot setback requirement, and the courtyard depth shall not exceed fifty (50) feet as measured from the public right- of-way line. • Institutional/civic buildings fronting onto an open space (lawn, courtyard, park, plaza, etc.) so long as the setback does not exceed seventy-five (75) feet as measured from the public right-of-way line. • Outdoor dining if a low wall is used to define the street wall and the setback does not exceed fifty (50) feet as measured from the public right-of-way line. Such wall shall be architecturally compatible with its associated building. The wall shall be between two (2) and three (3) feet in height, and iron fencing may be incorporated so long as it does not exceed a combined height of four (4) feet. 5. Side Setback: There are no side setback requirements 6. Rear Setback: Minimum five (5) feet 7. Building Frontage: At least seventy-five (75) percent of a lot’s street frontage shall be occupied by a building adhering to the front setback requirements. In the case of corner lots, such street frontage shall be defined by the building’s primary façade and primary street. April 2, 2012 VII-17   C. Building Design  1. Roofs. Form: Roofs shall be flat, gabled or hipped. Flat roofs shall feature a parapet wall sufficient to visually screen roof penetrations (other than chimneys) as viewed from any public street. Building components not constituting the primary structure, such as porches and dormers, may feature a shed or hipped roof. Penetrations and Equipment: Pipe vents, air conditioning units, and similar roof top penetrations and equipment (not including chimneys) shall be located and/or screened in a manner that minimizes their visibility. Chimneys shall be made of a masonry material. 2. Minimum Foundation Heights. These standards apply only to buildings featuring ground floor residential space fronting onto a street. Buildings shall have a foundation height (measured from finished grade to finished first floor) of at least twenty- four (24) inches. 3. Façade Design. Massing: No front façade plane shall exceed a width of thirty (30) feet without an interruption. Facades shall be broken into a series of vertical bays using any of the following elements: wall off-sets of at least four (4) inches in depth, material changes, pilasters (engaged pillars), columns/posts (including as part of a porch and/or balcony), roofline or cornice line changes, projecting bays, porches, and front steps and/or stoops. Depending upon the design of the building, more than one (1) such element may be required to achieve the appropriate massing. When used as the sole means, material  April 2, 2012 VII-18 changes, roofline or cornice line changes, and front steps and/or stoops alone will not suffice. Glazing: A minimum of fifty (50) percent of the front façade’s ground floor shall be glazed (comprised of glass in the form of doors and/or windows). The floor shall be considered the area between finished floor level and the same floor’s ceiling. The maximum sill height for ground floor windows shall be three (3) feet and the minimum head height shall be eight (8) feet. A minimum of twenty-five (25) percent of the front façade’s upper floors shall be glazed. Glass anywhere on the front façade may not be reflective or heavily tinted. Door & Window Design: The building’s primary entrance shall face the associated street. All windows, with the exception of storefront windows, shall have a vertical orientation. However, individual vertically oriented windows may be “ganged” to collectively have a horizontal orientation. Doors and windows with muntins shall feature real muntins or simulated divided lites on both sides of the glass, rather than “snap-in” and similar limitations. Shutters, if provided, shall be sized to fit the window and appear to be operable. Awnings, Canopies & Balconies: Awnings, canopies and balconies are encouraged, but not mandatory. If provided, awnings shall be canvas. Canopies shall be wood or a composite material and either: a) perpendicular to the façade and flat, or b) feature a shed roof or a hipped shed roof with standing seam metal and a slope no greater than 4:12. V-crimp roofing imitating standing seam metal is permitted. Balconies shall be wood and/or metal and have a minimum depth of six (6) feet. If roofed, balcony roofs shall follow the standards for canopies. April 2, 2012 VII-19 D. Façade Cladding Materials “Primary façade cladding materials are those which, individually or collectively, constitute at least seventy-five (75) percent of the exposed surface area. Primary material changes shall not occur at outside corners. Primary material changes shall occur on a horizontal line with the heavier material below the lighter material (for example; siding above masonry). 1. Permitted Primary Materials: Wood, brick, stone, cast stone, plaster/smooth- finished stucco, and materials identical in appearance including, but not limited to, Thin Brick, Thin Stone, Exterior Insulation Finishing System* (EIFS), etc. Wood Cladding shall be limited to lap siding and other forms of horizontal boarding, board-and-batten and other forms of vertical boarding, and wood shingles. Horizontal boarding shall have a maximum exposure of eight (8) inches. *Exterior Insulation Finishing System (EIFS) shall be limited to no more than sixty (60) percent of exposed surface area on buildings over forty (40) feet in height; on buildings forty feet and under EIFS is limited to twenty (20) percent for trim and cornice work. Only a water management EIFS system shall be installed, where permitted. 2. Permitted Secondary Materials: The following materials shall not exceed, individually or collectively, twenty-five (25) percent of the exposed surface area: concrete (not including smooth-finished concrete block) and metal. 3. Prohibited Materials: The following materials are completely prohibited from comprising the exposed surface area: vinyl, stucco, smooth-finished concrete block, non- drainable EIFS and other materials not specifically permitted. E. Parking Structures Parking structures fronting onto any street shall be designed to have the general appearance of a building along its street frontage with respect to materials and façade massing. The building design standards for this district should be considered in the parking structure’s design. Sloping interior floors of parking structures should not be visible and shall not be expressed on facades facing a street. Along Main Avenue and First Street, a parking structure shall be set behind other buildings (“liner buildings”) so as not to be visible from the right-of-way except at the point of vehicular access. Liner buildings shall be built in accordance with the standards in this district. Along other streets, cars parked at street level shall be screened from view. Where opportunities exist, access points shall occur off alleys or secondary streets rather than the primary street. Vehicular access from a primary street shall be limited to a single ingress land and a single egress lane. Pedestrian access shall be clearly visible and vertical circulation should be expressed architecturally on the exterior of the building, especially at corners. April 2, 2012 VII-20 703.03. Historic Downtown Core District It is the intent of this district to preserve and reinforce the physical character and architectural integrity of the historic downtown. This district should accommodate a mixture of land uses and maintain a physical environment that is urban in form, pedestrian-friendly, and human scaled. A. Land Uses  1. Permitted Principal Uses: Retail, restaurants, entertainment, artist studios, offices, personal services, professional services, lodging, multi-family or attached housing, daycare/pre-school, institutional/civic uses (not exceeding a 5,000 sq. ft. building footprint), and parking garages (if not fronting onto Main Avenue). Multi- family and attached housing buildings shall feature at least four (4) units per building. 2. Permitted Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are permitted when meeting each of the following standards:  A. Accessory use is customarily accessory, clearly incidental and subordinate to permitted principal uses; B. Accessory use is wholly located on the same lot as the permitted principal use or on a contiguous lot in the same ownership; and C. The use does not involve operations not in keeping with the character of the area. 3. Permitted Conditional Uses: There are no permitted conditional uses within this district. 4. Prohibited Uses: Ground floor street-fronting housing is prohibited on Main Avenue. Auto-oriented uses, such as service stations, car washes, and automobile dealerships, are prohibited. B. Building Scale & Placement  1. Maximum Building Height: Forty (40) feet. Building heights shall be measured from the average grade of the front façade to either: a) the top of the parapet on the front façade of flat-roofed buildings; or b) the top of the eave on the front façade of pitched- roofed buildings. Non-habitable vertical architectural elements, such as steeples and cupola, shall not be counted toward building height calculations. 2. Commercial Ground Floor Height: The minimum ground floor height of buildings in which the first floor will be used for commercial purposes shall be fourteen (14) feet. The ground floor height shall be measured from the finished floor to the ceiling. April 2, 2012 VII-21 3. Front Setback: Minimum: Zero (0) feet from public right-of-way line Maximum: Ten (10) feet from public right-of-way line  Exceptions from the front setback standards are permitted for the following cases:  • Buildings featuring ground floor residential front onto a street other than Main Avenue as long as parking lots are not within the setback. Such exceptions shall feature a front courtyard design in which at least one third of the building’s frontage adheres to the zero (0) to ten (10) foot setback requirement, and the courtyard depth shall not exceed fifty (50) feet as measured from the public right- of-way line. • Institutional/civic buildings fronting onto an open space (lawn, courtyard, park, plaza, etc.) so long as the setback does not exceed seventy-five (75) feet as measured from the public right-of-way line. • Outdoor dining if a low wall is used to define the street wall and the setback does not exceed fifty (50) feet as measured from the public right-of-way line. Such wall shall be architecturally compatible with its associated building. The wall shall be between two (2) and three (3) feet in height, and iron fencing may be incorporated so long as it does not exceed a combined height of four (4) feet. 5. Side Setback: There are no side setback requirements 6. Rear Setback: Minimum five (5) feet 7. Building Frontage: At least seventy-five (75) percent of a lot’s street frontage shall be occupied by a building adhering to the front setback requirements. In the case of corner lots, such street frontage shall be defined by the building’s primary façade and primary street. April 2, 2012 VII-22 C. Building Design  1. Roofs. Form: Roofs shall be flat, gabled or hipped. Flat roofs shall feature a parapet wall sufficient to visually screen roof penetrations (other than chimneys) as viewed from any public street. Building components not constituting the primary structure, such as porches and dormers, may feature a shed or hipped roof. Penetrations and Equipment: Pipe vents, air conditioning units, and similar roof top penetrations and equipment (not including chimneys) shall be located and/or screened in a manner that minimizes their visibility. Chimneys shall be made of a masonry material. 2. Minimum Foundation Heights. These standards apply only to buildings featuring ground floor residential space fronting onto a street. Buildings shall have a foundation height (measured from finished grade to finished first floor) of at least twenty- four (24) inches. 3. Façade Design. Massing: No front façade plane shall exceed a width of twenty-five (25) feet without an interruption. Facades shall be broken into a series of vertical bays using any of the following elements: wall off-sets of at least four (4) inches in depth, material changes, pilasters (engaged pillars), columns/posts (including as part of a porch and/or balcony), roofline or cornice line changes, projecting bays, porches, and front steps and/or stoops. Depending upon the design of the building, more than one (1) such element may be required to achieve the appropriate massing. When used as the sole means, material changes, roofline or cornice line changes, and front steps and/or stoops alone will not suffice. Glazing: A minimum of fifty (50) percent of the front façade’s ground floor shall be glazed (comprised of glass in the form of doors and/or windows). The floor shall be considered the area between finished floor level and the same floor’s ceiling. The maximum sill height for ground floor windows shall be three (3) feet and the minimum head height shall be eight (8) feet. A minimum of twenty-five (25) percent of the front façade’s upper floors shall be glazed. Glass anywhere on the front façade may not be reflective or heavily tinted. Door & Window Design: The building’s primary entrance shall face the associated street. All windows, with the exception of storefront windows, shall have a vertical orientation. However, individual vertically oriented windows may be “ganged” to collectively have a horizontal orientation. Doors and windows with muntins shall feature real muntins or simulated divided lites on both sides of the glass, rather than “snap-in” and similar limitations. Shutters, if provided, shall be sized to fit the window and appear to be operable. April 2, 2012 VII-23 Awnings, Canopies & Balconies: Awnings, canopies and balconies are encouraged, but not mandatory. If provided, awnings shall be canvas. Canopies shall be wood or a composite material and either: a) perpendicular to the façade and flat, or b) feature a shed roof or a hipped shed roof with standing seam metal and a slope no greater than 4:12. V-crimp roofing imitating standing seam metal is permitted. Balconies shall be wood and/or metal and have a minimum depth of six (6) feet. If roofed, balcony roofs shall follow the standards for canopies. D. Façade Cladding Materials “Primary façade cladding materials are those which, individually or collectively, constitute at least seventy-five (75) percent of the exposed surface area. Primary material changes shall not occur at outside corners. Primary material changes shall occur on a horizontal line with the heavier material below the lighter material (for example; siding above masonry). 1. Permitted Primary Materials: Wood, brick, stone, cast stone, plaster/smooth- finished stucco, and materials identical in appearance including, but not limited to, Thin Brick, Thin Stone, Exterior Insulation Finishing System* (EIFS), etc. Wood Cladding shall be limited to lap siding and other forms of horizontal boarding, board-and-batten and other forms of vertical boarding, and wood shingles. Horizontal boarding shall have a maximum exposure of eight (8) inches. *Exterior Insulation Finishing System (EIFS) shall be limited to no more than sixty (60) percent of exposed surface area on buildings over forty (40) feet in height; on buildings forty feet and under EIFS is limited to twenty (20) percent for trim and cornice work. Only a water management EIFS system shall be installed, where permitted. 2. Permitted Secondary Materials: The following materials shall not exceed, individually or collectively, twenty-five (25) percent of the exposed surface area: concrete (not including smooth-finished concrete block) and metal. 3. Prohibited Materials: The following materials are completely prohibited from comprising the exposed surface area: vinyl, stucco, smooth-finished concrete block, non- drainable EIFS and other materials not specifically permitted. April 2, 2012 VII-24  E. Parking Structures Parking structures fronting onto any street where permitted in this district (prohibited on Main) shall be designed to have the general appearance of a building along its street frontage with respect to materials and façade massing. The building design standards for this district should be considered in the parking structure’s design. Sloping interior floors of parking structures should not be visible and shall not be expressed on facades facing a street. Along other streets, cars parked at street level shall be screened from view. Where opportunities exist, access points shall occur off alleys or secondary streets rather than the primary street. Vehicular access from a primary street shall be limited to a single ingress land and a single egress lane. Pedestrian access shall be clearly visible and vertical circulation should be expressed architecturally on the exterior of the building, especially at corners. F. Interim Historic Zoning Until a more detailed historic preservation ordinance and design guidelines can be drafted, adopted and applied as an overlay district to this base Historic Downtown Core District, the following standards shall apply:  1. Demolition: Demolition of any historically and/or architecturally contributing building is prohibited. The term “contributing” shall be based upon nationally recognized historic preservation standards and shall meet the following criteria: a) Buildings at least fifty (50) years old; b) Buildings considered to be “contributing” per National Register of Historic Places standards: c) Buildings within this district that front onto Main Avenue  April 2, 2012 VII-25 2. Alterations to Historic Buildings: The federal guidelines entitled “The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties with Guidelines for Preserving, Rehabilitating, Restoring and Reconstructing Historic Buildings” shall serve as the basis for considering proposed alterations to “contributing” buildings within this district. Reviewable actions involving existing buildings shall be limited to portions of “contributing” buildings that are visible from a public street. 3. New Development: The standards for new development contained herein for this Historic Downtown Core District shall apply to all new development. 703.04. Residential/Commercial/Institutional District It is the intent of this district to preserve and reinforce its residential and institutional character, while allowing for a mixture of residential, institutional, and low-impact commercial uses within a pedestrian-friendly and historic environment. A. Land Uses  1. Permitted Principal Uses: Retail, restaurants, office, personal services, professional services, single-family detached and attached housing not exceeding four (4) units per building, daycare/pre-school, institutional/civic uses (not exceeding a 10,000 sq. ft. building footprint), and parking garages for institutional/civic uses only when not fronting a street and located behind their associated building. 2. Permitted Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are permitted when meeting each of the following standards:  A. Accessory use is customarily accessory, clearly incidental and subordinate to permitted principal uses; B. Accessory use is wholly located on the same lot as the permitted principal use or on a contiguous lot in the same ownership; and C. The use does not involve operations not in keeping with the character of the area. 3. Permitted Conditional Uses: There are no permitted conditional uses within this district. 4. Prohibited Uses: Drive-through windows are prohibited for any use. Auto- oriented uses, such as service stations, car washes, and automobile dealerships, are prohibited. B. Building Scale & Placement  1. Maximum Building Height: Thirty (30) feet. Building heights shall be measured from the average grade of the front façade to either: a) the top of the parapet on the front  April 2, 2012 VII-26 façade of flat-roofed building; or b) the top of the eave on the front façade of pitched- roofed buildings. Non-habitable vertical architectural elements, such as steeples and cupola, shall not be counted toward building height calculations. 2. Front Setback: Minimum – Twenty (20) feet from public right-of-way line 3. Side Setback: Minimum – Five (5) feet  4. Rear Setback: Minimum – Five (5) feet   C. Building Design  1. Building Types. Regardless of their use, only two building types are permitted within this district: residential and institutional/civic. Residential Building Types: All uses except institutional/civic uses shall occur within residential building types. Institutional/Civic Building Types: All institutional/civic uses shall occur within institutional/civic building types. 2. Roofs. Form: Institutional/civic building shall have flat, gabled or hipped roofs as their primary roofing. Non-habitable vertical architectural components of institutional/civic buildings, such as steeples, may feature less conventional roof forms. All other uses shall have either gabled or hipped roofs. Flat roofs shall feature a parapet wall sufficient to visually screen roof penetrations (other than chimneys) as viewed from any public street. Building components not constituting the primary structure, such as porches and dormers, may feature a shed or hipped roof. April 2, 2012 VII-27  Penetrations and Equipment: Pipe vents, air conditioning units, and similar roof top penetrations and equipment (not including chimneys) shall be located and/or screened in a manner that minimizes their visibility. Chimneys shall be made of a masonry material. 2. Minimum Foundation Heights. All residential building types shall have a foundation height (measured from finished grade to finished first floor) of at least twenty- four (24) inches. 3. Façade Design. Glazing: Glass anywhere on the front façade may not be reflective or heavily tinted. Door & Window Design: The building’s primary entrance shall face the associated street. All windows shall have a vertical orientation. However, individual vertically oriented windows may be “ganged” to collectively have a horizontal orientation. Doors and windows with muntins shall feature real muntins or simulated divided lites on both sides of the glass, rather than “snap-in” and similar limitations. Shutters, if provided, shall be sized to fit the window and appear to be operable. Porches: All residential building types shall have a front porch. The porch shall extend across at least fifty (50) percent of the front façade, and it shall have a minimum depth of six (6) feet. All porch posts, columns, handrails and balustrades shall be wood or a composite material. April 2, 2012 VII-28 D. Façade Cladding Materials “Primary façade cladding materials are those which, individually or collectively, constitute at least seventy-five (75) percent of the exposed surface area. Primary material changes shall not occur at outside corners. Primary material changes shall occur on a horizontal line with the heavier material below the lighter material (for example; siding above masonry). 1. Permitted Primary Materials:  Residential Building Types: Wood, brick, and materials identical in appearance if not panelized. Wood cladding shall be limited to lap siding and other forms of horizontal boarding, board-and-batten and other forms of vertical boarding. Horizontal boarding shall have a maximum exposure of eight (8) inches. Institutional/Civic Building Types: Wood, brick, stone, cast stone, concrete (not including smooth-finished concrete block), plaster/smooth-finished stucco, and materials identical in appearance including, but not limited to, Thin Brick, Thin Stone, Exterior Insulation Finishing System* (EIFS), etc. Wood Cladding shall be limited to lap siding and other forms of horizontal boarding, board-and-batten and other forms of vertical boarding, and wood shingles. Horizontal boarding shall have a maximum exposure of eight (8) inches. *Exterior Insulation Finishing System (EIFS) shall be limited to no more than sixty (60) percent of exposed surface area on buildings over forty (40) feet in height; on buildings forty feet and under EIFS is limited to twenty (20) percent for trim and cornice work. Only a water management EIFS system shall be installed, where permitted. 2. Permitted Secondary Materials: For both residential and institutional/civic building types, the following materials, when used as a secondary material, shall not exceed, individually or collectively, twenty-five (25) percent of the exposed surface area: wood, brick, concrete (not including smooth-finished concrete block), metal, stone, cast stone, plaster/smooth-finished stucco, and materials identical in appearance if not panelized. Wood cladding shall be limited to clapboard and other forms of horizontal boarding, board-and-batten and other forms of vertical boarding, and wood shingles. Horizontal boarding shall have a maximum exposure of eight (8) inches. 3. Prohibited Materials: The following materials are completely prohibited from comprising the exposed surface area: vinyl, stucco, smooth-finished concrete block, non- drainable EIFS and other materials not specifically permitted. April 2, 2012 VII-29 E. Parking Structures Parking structures are only permitted within this district for institutional/civic uses. They shall not front onto a street and must be located behind their associated building so as to not be readily visible from any public street. 703.05 Bridge Avenue South District  It is the intent of this district to provide a mixed-use area that is urban in form; pedestrian-friendly, human scaled, and provides visual and physical access to the river. A. Land Uses  1. Permitted Principal Uses: Retail, restaurants, entertainment, artist studios, offices, personal services, professional services, lodging, multi-family or attached housing, daycare/pre-school, institutional/civic uses, and parking garages if: a) located behind a building, or b) fronted with ground floor retail and/or services on any street frontage. Multi-family and attached housing buildings shall feature at least four (4) units per building. 2. Permitted Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are permitted when meeting each of the following standards:  D. Accessory use is customarily accessory, clearly incidental and subordinate to permitted principal uses; E. Accessory use is wholly located on the same lot as the permitted principal use or on a contiguous lot in the same ownership; and F. The use does not involve operations not in keeping with the character of the area. 3. Permitted Conditional Uses: Permitting the following conditional uses is a discretionary decision of the City and may be approved with any reasonable conditions related to the use’s location, design and operation. Permitted conditional uses are limited to the following: passenger terminals, utility substations, and service stations when meeting the urban mixed use site design standards for service stations. 4. Prohibited Uses: Auto-oriented uses, such as car washes and automobile dealerships are prohibited. B. Building Scale & Placement  1. Maximum Building Height: Sixty (60) feet. Building heights shall be measured from the average grade of the front façade to either: a) the top of the parapet on the front façade of flat-roofed building; or b) the top of the eave on the front façade of pitched- April 2, 2012 VII-30 roofed buildings. Non-habitable vertical architectural elements, such as steeples and cupola, shall not be counted toward building height calculations. 2. Commercial Ground Floor Height: The minimum ground floor height of buildings in which the first floor will be used for commercial purposes shall be fourteen (14) feet. The ground floor height shall be measured from the finished floor to the ceiling. 3. Front Setback: Minimum: Zero (0) feet from public right-of-way line Maximum: Ten (10) feet from public right-of-way line  Exceptions from the front setback standards are permitted for the following cases: • Buildings featuring ground floor residential as long as parking lots are not within the setback. Such exceptions shall feature a front courtyard design in which at least one third of the building’s frontage adheres to the zero (0) to ten (10) foot setback requirement, and the courtyard depth shall not exceed fifty (50) feet as measured from the public right-of-way line. • Institutional/civic buildings fronting onto an open space (lawn, courtyard, park, plaza, etc.) so long as the setback does not exceed seventy-five (75) feet as measured from the public right-of-way line.