VEHICULAR SPEED SUBJECT TO POSTED LIMITS BETWEEN 35 AND 55 MILES PER HOUR (INCLUSIVE) 40 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  SIGN REGULATIONS   450 60 375 300 45 225 150 715 ALLOWABLE SIGN AREA IN SQUARE FEET ALLOWABLE HEIGHT IN FEET ABOVE GRADE 25   0 50 100 150 200 250 300 & OVER LINEAL FRONT FOOTAGE      For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m’, 1 mile per hour = 1.609 km/h FIGURE 1008.1.2(3) ON-PREMISE FREE-STANDING SIGNS/COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES VEHICULAR SPEED SUBJECT TO POSTED LIMITS ABOVE 55 MILES PER HOUR 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” 41  SIGN REGULATIONS 1008.2.4 Special event signs in public ways. Signs adver- tising a special community event shall not be prohibited in or over public rights-of-way, subject to approval by the code official as to the size, location and method of erec- tion. The code official may not approve any special event signage that would impair the safety and convenience of use of public rights-of-way, or obstruct traffic visibility. 1008.2.5 Portable signs. Portable signs shall be permitted only in the C, CR and FI districts, as designated in this code, subject to the following limitations: 1. No more than one such sign may be displayed on any property, and shall not exceed a height of |JURIS- DICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet nor an area of |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet. 2. Such signs shall be displayed not more than 20 days in any calendar year. 3. Any electrical portable signs shall comply with NFPA 70, as adopted in this jurisdiction. 4. No portable sign shall be displayed prior to obtain- ing a sign permit. 1008.2.6 Political signs. Political signs shall be permitted in all zoning districts, subject to the following limitations: 1. Such signs shall not exceed a height of |JURISDIC- TION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet nor an area of |JURIS- DICTION TO INSERT NUMBER] square feet. 2. Such signs for election candidates or ballot proposi- tions shall be displayed only for a period of 60 days preceding the election and shall be removed within 10 days after the election, provided that signs pro- moting successful candidates or ballot propositions in a primary election may remain displayed until not more than 10 days after the general election. 3. Such signs shall not be placed in any public right-of- way or obstruct traffic visibility. 1008.3 Requirements for specific sign types. Signs of spe- cific type shall be in accordance with Sections 1008.3.1 through 1008.3.7. 42 1008.3.1 Canopy and marquee signs. 1. The permanently-affixed copy area of canopy or marquee signs shall not exceed an area equal to 25 percent of the face area of the canopy, marquee or architectural projection upon which such sign is affixed or applied. 2. Graphic striping, patterns or color bands on the face of a building, canopy, marquee or architectural pro- jection shall not be included in the computation of sign copy area. 1008.3.2 Awning signs. 1. The copy area of awning signs shall not exceed an area equal to 25 percent of the background area of the awning or awning surface to which such a sign is affixed or applied, or the permitted area for wall or fascia signs, whichever is less. 2. Neither the background color of an awning, nor any graphic treatment or embellishment thereto such as striping, patterns or valances, shall be included in the computation of sign copy area. 1008.3.3 Projecting signs. 1. Projecting signs shall be permitted in lieu of free- standing signage on any street frontage limited to one sign per occupancy along any street frontage with public entrance to such an occupancy, and shall be limited in height and area to |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER] square feet per each |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| lineal feet of building frontage, except that no such sign shall exceed an area of |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet. 2. No such sign shall extend vertically above the high- est point of the building facade upon which it is mounted by more than |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| percent of the height of the building facade. 3. Such signs shall not extend over a public sidewalk in excess of |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| percent of the width of the sidewalk. 4. Such signs shall maintain a clear vertical distance above any public sidewalk a minimum of |JURISDIC- TION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet. 1008.3.4 Under canopy signs. 1. Under canopy signs shall be limited to no more than one such sign per public entrance to any occupancy, and shall be limited to an area not to exceed |JURIS- DICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet. 2. Such signs shall maintain a clear vertical distance above any sidewalk or pedestrian way a minimum of |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet. 1008.3.5 Roof signs. 1. Roof signs shall be permitted in commercial and industrial districts only. 2. Such signs shall be limited to a height above the roofline of the elevation parallel to the sign face of no more than |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| percent of the height of the roofline in commercial districts, and |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| per- cent of the height of the roofline in industrial dis- tricts. 3. The sign area for roof signs shall be assessed against the aggregate permitted area for wall signs on the elevation of the building most closely parallel to the face of the sign. 1008.3.6 Window signs. Window signs shall be permitted for any nonresidential use in a residential district, and for all commercial and industria] districts, subject to the fol- lowing limitations: 1. The aggregate area of all such signs shall not exceed 25 percent of the window area on which such signs are displayed. Window panels separated by muntins 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  or mullions shall be considered as one continuous window area. 2. Window signs shall not be assessed against the sign area permitted for other sign types. 1008.3.7 Menu boards. Menu board signs shall not be permitted to exceed 50 square feet (4.6 m’). SECTION 1009 SIGNS FOR DEVELOPMENT COMPLEXES 1009.1 Master sign plan required. All landlord or single- owner controlled multiple-occupancy development com- plexes on parcels exceeding 8 acres (32 376 m) in size, such as shopping centers or planned industrial parks, shall submit to the code official a master sign plan prior to issuance of new sign permits. The master sign plan shall establish standards and criteria for all signs in the complex that require permits, and shall address, at a minimum, the following: 1. Proposed sign locations. 2. Materials. 3. Type of illumination. 4. Design of free-standing sign structures. 5. Size. 6. Quantity. 7 . Uniform standards for nonbusiness signage, including directional and informational signs. 1009.2 Development complex sign. In addition to the free- standing business identification signs otherwise allowed by this ordinance, every multiple-occupancy development com- plex shall be entitled to one free-standing sign per street front, at the maximum size permitted for business identification free-standing signs, to identify the development complex. No business identification shall be permitted on a development complex sign. Any free-standing sign otherwise permitted under this ordinance may identify the name of the develop- ment complex. 1009.3 Compliance with master sign plan. All applications for sign permits for signage within a multiple-occupancy development complex shall comply with the master sign plan. 1009.4 Amendments. Any amendments to a master sign plan must be signed and approved by the owner(s) within the development complex before such amendment will become effective. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” SIGN REGULATIONS 43  44 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  CHAPTER 11 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES SECTION 1101 GENERAL 1101.1 Continuance. Except as otherwise required by law, a structure or use legally established prior to the adoption date of this code may be maintained unchanged. In other than criminal proceedings, the owner, occupant or user shall have the burden to show that the structure, lot or use was lawfully established. SECTION 1102 DISCONTINUANCE 1102.1 Vacancy. Any lot or structure, or portion thereof, occupied by a nonconforming use, which is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains unoccupied by a nonconforming use for a period of 6 months shall not thereafter be occupied, except by a use that conforms to this code. 1102.2 Damage. If any nonconforming structure or use is, by any cause, damaged to the extent of 50 percent of its value as determined by the code official, it shall not thereafter be reconstructed as such. SECTION 1103 ENLARGEMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS 1103.1 Maintenance and repair. Maintenance, repairs and structural alterations shall be permitted to be made to noncon- forming structures or to a building housing a nonconforming use with valid permits.