code, shall not be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of such duties. A suit brought against the code official or employee because such act or omission performed by the code official or employee in the enforcement of any provision of such codes or other perti- nent laws or ordinances implemented through the enforce- ment of this code or enforced by the enforcement agency shall be defended by the jurisdiction until final termination of such proceedings, and any judgment resulting therefrom shall be assumed by the jurisdiction. This code shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person owning, operating or control- ling any building or parcel of land for any damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall the enforcement agency or its jurisdiction be held as assuming any such liabil- ity by reason of the reviews or permits issued under this code. [A] 104.8 Cooperation of other officials and officers. The code official shall be authorized to request, and shall receive so far as is required in the discharge of the duties described in this code, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the jurisdiction. SECTION 105 PLANNING COMMISSION [A] 105.1 General. This section addresses the duties and responsibilities of a planning commission, hereafter referred to as “the commission,” and other officials and agencies, with respect to the administration of this code. [A] 105.2 Establishment of the commission. The establish- ment of the commission shall be in accordance with the poli- cies and procedures as set forth in state law. The commission shall consist of the number of members as specified in state law. Additionally, one member of the legislative body shall be permitted to be appointed as liaison to the commission. Such member shall have the right to attend all meetings and take part in all discussions, but shall not vote on commission decisions. [A] 105.3 Terms for members. The terms of office for the members of the commission shall be as set forth in state law. Members shall be permitted to be removed for cause upon written charges and after a public hearing before the legisla- tive body of the jurisdiction, if such a hearing is requested. [A] 105.4 Selection of members. All members shall be appointed and approved by the legislative body of the juris- diction served. The terms of office for the commission mem- bers shall be staggered at intervals so as to provide continuity in policy and personnel. Members of the commission shall be residents of the jurisdiction served. Compensation of mem- bers shall be set by the legislative body of the jurisdiction. Any vacancy for the unexpired term of any member whose term is not completed shall be filled. A member shall con- tinue to serve until a successor has been appointed and approved by the legislative body of the jurisdiction. [A] 105.5 Chairperson election and rules adoption. The commission shall elect from its membership a chairperson. It shall also establish and adopt rules for its organization and transaction of business and shall keep a public record of its proceedings. [A] 105.6 Commission secretary. A secretary to assist the commission shall be appointed by the code official. The sec- retary shall keep minutes of the commission meetings for public record and conduct all correspondence, including the notification of decisions. The secretary shall also certify records. The secretary shall prepare and submit the minutes 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  of commission meetings to the chairperson and the commis- sion. [A] 105.7 Duties and powers. The duties and powers of the planning commission shall be in accordance with Sections 105.7.1 through 105.7.5. [A] 105.7.1 Comprehensive plan. It shall be the duty of the commission, after holding public hearings, to create and recommend to the legislative body a comprehensive plan for the physical development of the jurisdiction, which shall be permitted to include areas outside its boundaries that bear consideration to the planning of the jurisdiction. The comprehensive plan shall include at least the following elements: . Official maps. . Growth and land use. . Commercial/industrial uses. . Transportation and utilities. . Community facilities. . Housing. . Environmental. DN DOF WN . Geologic/natural hazards. The commission shall be permitted also to recommend amendments to the comprehensive plan regarding the administration or maintenance of this code. [A] 105.7.2 Zoning code. It shall be the duty of the com- mission to develop and recommend to the legislative body a zoning code, in accordance with the guidelines of the comprehensive plan, establishing zones within the juris- diction. Such a code shall be made in regards to the char- acter of each district and the most appropriate use of land within the jurisdiction. The commission shall make periodic reports and rec- ommendations to the legislative body. [A] 105.7.3 Division of land regulations. It shall be the duty of the commission to develop and certify regulations governing the division of land. All divisions of land shall be in accordance with the adopted regulations. [A] 105.7.4 Conditional-use permits. It shall be the duty of the commission to review conditional-use permit appli- cations. The application shall be accompanied by maps, draw- ings or other documentation in support of the request. The granting of a conditional-use permit shall not exempt the applicant from compliance with other relevant provisions of related ordinances. [A] 105.7.5 Official zoning map. The legislative body shall adopt an official zoning map for all areas included within the jurisdiction. [A] 105.8 Appeals and hearings. Any person with standing aggrieved by any decision of the commission shall have the right to make such appeals as shall be permitted to be pro- vided by this code or state law. Such appeals shall be based on the record. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION SECTION 106 COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE [A] 106.1 General. Upon adoption of this code by the legis- lative body, no use, building or structure, whether publicly or privately owned, shall be constructed or authorized until the location and extent thereof conform to said plan. SECTION 107 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT [A] 107.1 General. This section addresses the duties and responsibilities of a board of adjustment, hereafter referred to as “the board,” and other officials and agencies, with respect to the administration of this code. [A] 107.2 Establishment of the board. The establishment of the board shall be in accordance with the procedures and pol- icies set forth in state law. The board shall consist of the num- ber of members as specified in state law. Additionally, one member of the commission shall be appointed as liaison to the board. Such member shall have the right to attend all meetings and take part in all discussions, but shall not vote on board decisions. [A] 107.3 Terms for members. The terms of office for the members of the board shall be as set forth in state law. Mem- bers shall be permitted to be removed for cause upon written charges and after a public hearing before the legislative body of the jurisdiction, if such hearing is requested. [A] 107.4 Selection of members. All members shall be appointed and approved by the legislative body of the juris- diction served. The terms of office shall be staggered at inter- vals, so as to provide continuity in policy and personnel. Members of the board shall be residents of the jurisdiction served. Compensation shall be set by the legislative body of the jurisdiction. Any vacancy for the unexpired term of any member whose term is not completed shall be filled. A mem- ber shall continue to serve until a successor has been appointed and approved by the legislative body of the juris- diction. [A] 107.5 Chairperson election and rules adoption. The board shall elect from its membership a chairperson. It shall also establish and adopt rules for its organization and the transaction of business and shall keep a public record of its proceedings. [A] 107.6 Board secretary. A secretary to assist the board shall be appointed by the code official. The secretary shall keep minutes of the board meetings for public record and conduct all correspondence, including the notification of decisions. The secretary shall also certify records. The secre- tary shall prepare and submit the minutes of board meetings to the chairperson and the board. [A] 107.7 Duties and powers. The duties and powers of the board of adjustment shall be in accordance with Sections 107.7.1 through 107.7.3. [A] 107.7.1 Errors. The board shall have the power to hear and decide on appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, determination or interpretation by the code official.  SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION [A] 107.7.2 Variances. The board shall have the power to hear and decide on appeals wherein a variance to the terms of this code is proposed. Limitations as to the board’s authorization shall be as set forth in this code. [A] 107.7.3 Variance review criteria. The board of adjustment shall be permitted to approve, approve with conditions or deny a request for a variance. Each request for a variance shall be consistent with the following crite- ria: 1. Limitations on the use of the property due to physi- cal, topographical and geologic features. 2. The grant of the variance will not grant any special privilege to the property owner. 3. The applicant can demonstrate that without a vari- ance there can be no reasonable use of the property. 4. The grant of the variance is not based solely on eco- nomic reasons. 5. The necessity for the variance was not created by the property owner. 6. The variance requested is the minimum variance necessary to allow reasonable use of the property. 7. The grant of the variance will not be injurious to the public health, safety or welfare. 8. The property subject to the variance request pos- sesses one or more unique characteristics generally not applicable to similarly situated properties. [A] 107.8 Use variance. The board of adjustment shall not grant a variance to allow the establishment of a use in a zon- ing district when such use is prohibited by the provisions of this code. [A] 107.9 Decisions. The board shall be permitted to decide in any manner it sees fit; however, it shall not have the authority to alter or change this code or zoning map or allow as a use that which would be inconsistent with the require- ments of this code, provided, however, that in interpreting and applying the provisions of this code, the requirements shall be deemed to be the spirit and intent of the code and do not constitute the granting of a special privilege. SECTION 108 HEARING EXAMINER [A] 108.1 General. This section addresses the duties and responsibilities of a hearing examiner, hereafter referred to as the “examiner,” and other officials and agencies with respect to the administration of this code. [A] 108.2 Appointment of an examiner. The examiner shall be appointed and approved by the legislative body of the jurisdiction served. Compensation shall be set by same. [A] 108.3 Duties and powers. The examiner shall hear and consider all applications for discretionary land rezones and use decisions as authorized by the legislative body by resolu- tion. Such considerations shall be set for public hearing. The examiner shall be bound by the same standards of conduct as the commission and board, with respect to the administration of this code. [A] 108.4 Decisions. The examiner shall, within 10 working days, render a decision. Notice in writing of the decision and the minutes of record shall be given to the code official for distribution as required. All decisions shall be kept in accor- dance with state regulations and such decisions shall be open to the public.