SECTION 109 HEARINGS, APPEALS AND AMENDMENTS [A] 109.1 Hearings. Upon receipt of an application in proper form, the code official shall arrange to advertise the time and place of public hearing. Such advertisement shall be given by at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Such notice shall state the nature of the request, the location of the property, and the time and place of hearing. Reasonable effort shall also be made to give notice by regular mail of the time and place of hearing to each surrounding property owner; the extent of the area to be noti- fied shall be set by the code official. A notice of such hearing shall be posted in a conspicuous manner on the subject prop- erty. [A] 109.2 Appeals. Appeals shall be in accordance with Sec- tions 109.2.1 through 109.2.3. [A] 109.2.1 Filing. Any person with standing, aggrieved or affected by any decision of the code official shall be permitted to appeal to the examiner, board or commission by written request with the code official. Upon furnishing the proper information, the code official shall transmit to the examiner, board or commission all papers and perti- nent data related to the appeal. [A] 109.2.2 Time limit. An appeal shall only be consid- ered if filed within [NUMBER OF WORKING DAYS] days after the cause arises or the appeal shall not be considered. If such an appeal is not made, the decision of the code offi- cial shall be considered final. [A] 109.2.3 Stays of proceedings. An appeal stays all pro- ceedings from further action unless there is immediate danger to public health and safety. [A] 109.3 Amendments. This code shall be permitted to be amended, but all proposed amendments shall be submitted to the code official for review and recommendation to the com- mission. [A] 109.4 Voting and notice of decision. There shall be a vote of a majority of the board and commission present in order to decide any matter under consideration. Each decision shall be entered in the minutes by the secretary. All appeals shall be kept in accordance with state regulations and such appeals shall be open to the public. Notice in writing of the decision and the disposition of each appeal shall be given to the code official and each appel- lant by mail or otherwise. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  SECTION 110 VIOLATIONS [A] 110.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or land or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of this code. When any building or parcel of land regulated by this code is being used contrary to this code, the code official shall be permitted to order such use discontin- ued and the structure, parcel of land, or portion thereof, vacated by notice served on any person causing such use to be continued. Such person shall discontinue the use within the time prescribed by the code official after receipt of such notice to make the structure, parcel of land, or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of this code. SECTION 111 PERMITS AND APPROVALS [A] 111.1 General. All departments, officials and employees which are charged with the duty or authority to issue permits or approvals shall issue no permit or approval for uses or pur- poses where the same would be in conflict with this code. Any permit or approval, if issued in conflict with this code, shall be null and void. [A] 111.2 Expiration or cancellation. Each license, permit or approval issued shall expire after 180 days if no work is undertaken or such use or activity is not established, unless a different time of issuance of the license or permit is allowed in this code, or unless an extension is granted by the issuing agency prior to expiration. Failure to comply fully with the terms of any permit, license or approval shall be permitted to be grounds for can- cellation or revocation. Action to cancel any license, permit or approval shall be permitted to be taken on proper grounds by the code official. Cancellation of a permit or approval by the commission or board shall be permitted to be appealed in the same manner as its original action. [A] 111.3 Validity of licenses, permits and approvals. For the issuance of any license, permit or approval for which the commission or board is responsible, the code official shall require that the development or use in question proceed only in accordance with the terms of such license, permit or approval, including any requirements or conditions estab- lished as a condition of issuance. Except as specifically pro- vided for in this code and conditions of approval, the securing of one required review or approval shall not exempt the recip- ient from the necessity of securing any other required review or approval. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION  2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS SECTION 201 GENERAL 201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the follow- ing words and terms shall, for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter. 201.2 Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular. 201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the Jnternational Building Code or the International Mechanical Code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes. 201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies. SECTION 202 GENERAL DEFINITIONS ABANDONED SIGN. See Section 1002.1. ACCESSORY BUILDING. An incidental subordinate building customarily incidental to and located on the same lot occupied by the main use or building, such as a detached garage. ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS. An accessory build- ing used solely as the temporary dwelling of guests of the occupants of the premises; such dwelling having no Ajtchen facilities and not rented or otherwise used as a separate s/eep- dag unit. ACCESSORY USE. A use conducted on the same lot as the primary use of the structure to which it is related; a use that is clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection with, such primary use. AGRICULTURE. The tilling of the soil, raising of crops, farm animals, livestock, horticulture, gardening, beekeeping and aquaculture. ALLEY. Any public way or thoroughfare more than 10 feet (3048 mm), but less than 16 feet (4877 mm), in width, which has been dedicated to the public for public use. [A] ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction, occupancy or use. AMUSEMENT CENTER. An establishment offering five or more amusement devices, including, but not limited to, coin-operated electronic games, shooting galleries, table games and similar recreational diversions within an enclosed building. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” ANIMATED SIGN. See Section 1002.1. Electrically activated. See Section 1002.1. Environmentally activated. See Section 1002.1. Mechanically activated. See Section 1002.1. APARTMENT HOUSE. A residential building designed or used for three or more dwelling units. ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. See Section 1002.1. AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MAJOR. An establishment pri- marily engaged in the repair or maintenance of motor vehi- cles, trailers and similar large mechanical equipment, including paint, body and fender, and major engine and engine part overhaul, which is conducted within a completely enclosed building. AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MINOR. An establishment pri- marily engaged in the repair or maintenance of motor vehi- cles, trailers and similar mechanical equipment, including brake, muffler, upholstery work, tire repair and change, lubri- cation, tune ups, and transmission work, which is conducted within a completely enclosed building. AUTOMOTIVE SELF-SERVICE MOTOR FUEL DIS- PENSING FACILITY. That portion of property where flammable or combustible liquids or gases used as fuel are stored and dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than a service station attendant. Such an establishment shall be permitted to offer for sale at retail other convenience items as a clearly second- ary activity and shall be permitted also to include a free- standing automatic car wash. AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE MOTOR FUEL DISPENS- ING FACILITY. That portion of property where flammable or combustible liquids or gases used as fuel are stored and dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles. Accessory activities shall be permitted to include automotive repair and maintenance, car wash service, and food sales. AWNING. See Section 1002.1. AWNING SIGN. See Section 1002.1. BACKLIT AWNING. See Section 1002.1. BANNER. See Section 1002.1. BANNER SIGN. See Section 1002.1. BASEMENT. Any floor level below the first story in a build- ing, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first story as defined herein. BILLBOARD. See Section 1002.1. BOARD. The board of adjustment of the adopting jurisdic- tion.  DEFINITIONS [B] BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling containing a single dwelling unit and not more than 10 sleeping units, where lodging is provided with or without meals, for compensation for more than one week. [A] BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for support- ing or sheltering any use or occupancy. BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which the principal use of the site is conducted. BUILDING, TEMPORARY. A building used temporarily for the storage of construction materials and equipment inci- dental and necessary to on-site permitted construction of util- ities, or other community facilities, or used temporarily in conjunction with the sale of property within a subdivision under construction. BUILDING CODE. The Jnternational Building Code pro- mulgated by the International Code Council, as adopted by the jurisdiction. BUILDING ELEVATION. See Section 1002.1. BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance above the aver- age existing grade measured to the highest point of the build- ing. The height of a stepped or terraced building shall be the maximum height of any segment of the building. BUILDING LINE. The perimeter of that portion of a build- ing or structure nearest a property line, but excluding open steps, terraces, cornices and other ornamental features pro- jecting from the walls of the building or structure. BUSINESS OR FINANCIAL SERVICES. An establish- ment intended for the conduct or service or administration by a commercial enterprise, or offices for the conduct of profes- sional or business service. CANOPY. A roofed structure constructed of fabric or other material supported by the building or by support extending to the ground directly under the canopy placed so as to extend outward from the building providing a protective shield for doors, windows and other openings. CANOPY (Attached). See Section 1002.1. CANOPY (Free-standing). See Section 1002.1. CANOPY SIGN. See Section 1002.1. CHANGEABLE SIGN. See Section 1002.1. Electrically activated. See Section 1002.1. Manually activated. See Section 1002.1. COMBINATION SIGN. See Section 1002.1.