(a) Public Notice.
(b) Public Hearings; Procedures.
(c) Decision on a Code Amendment.
(1) The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation for approval, denial or such other action it deems appropriate, no later than their next regularly scheduled meeting following their public hearing, or the proposed amendment shall go forward wit... 	(2) The City Council shall hold its public hearing and take action on each code amendment at a regularly scheduled meeting for which adequate notice can be published.
(3) The Planning Director shall maintain a record and date of such amendments as approved or denied by the City Council, and shall update this Development Code or the Zoning Map as amended within 30 calendar days of the City Council’s action.
1305.04 Standards for Code Amendments.
(a) Is the proposed amendment consistent with the purpose and intent of this Development Code as stated under Article 1?
(b) Does the proposed amendment further or is it compatible with the purpose and intent of the Comprehensive Plan?
(c) Is the proposed amendment required to adequately address new or changing conditions or to properly implement the Comprehensive Plan?
(d) Does the proposed amendment reasonably promote the public health, safety, morality or general welfare?
1305.05 Effect of Code Amendment Approval.
(a) Approval of a code amendment shall be in full force and effect upon its approval by the City Council or upon the stated effective date thereof.
(b) For a property on which a use, building, structure or other improvements existed in conformity with this Development Code prior to the effective date of a text amendment affecting the property, any such use, building, structure or other improvemen... 	(c) Construction of any use, building, structure, or other improvements for which a building permit has been issued in conformity with this Development Code prior to the effective date of a code amendment may continue to completion as though no change...
Section 1306.
Annexations.
1306.01 Zoning Classification of Land upon Annexation.
(a) Any land subsequently annexed into the City shall be classified by the City Council as to the zoning district or districts at the time of annexation provided that before the zoning decision and annexation are approved, a public hearing is held con... 	(b) The City Council in determining the zoning classification may take into account the use restrictions on the land prior to annexation and the Land Use Plan and Comprehensive Plan.
1306.02 Review by Planning Commission.
1306.03 Zoning Public Hearing.
(a) The public hearing held by the City Council concerning the zoning decision may be held in conjunction with the public hearing concerning annexation.
(b) A notice of the time and place of the public hearing shall be published at least 15 days, but no more than 45 days, prior to said public hearing in the official legal organ of the City of Duluth.
The notice shall state the time, place and purpose ... 	(c) A sign containing the same information as contained in the published notice shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property by the property owner not less than 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Section 1307.
Violation and Penalties.
1307.01 Violations.
1307.02 Right of Inspection.
(a) The Planning and Development Director or the Director’s designee, or other responsible enforcement agents, officers or employees of the City shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their assigned and o... 	(b) Law enforcement officials or other officials having police powers shall have authority to assist the Director in enforcement activities.
1307.03 Notice of Violation.
(a) The notice of violation shall contain: 	(1) The name and address of the owner, occupant or other responsible person, if known; 	(2) The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring; 	(3) A statement specifying the nature of the violation; 	(4) A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with this Code and the date for the completion of such remedial action; 	(5) A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and 	(6) A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the  Planning and Development Director by filing a written notice of appeal within 10 working days after the notice of violation (except, that in the event the violation constitute...  	(b) If the identity of the owner, occupant or the responsible person cannot be determined, the notice of violation may be posted in a prominent and visible location on the property where the violation has occurred or is occurring.
Such posting shall e...  	1307.04 Violations; Administrative Actions.
(a) In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, the City may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or remedy ... 	(b) Before taking any of the following actions, the Planning and Development Director shall first notify the owner, occupant or other responsible person in writing of his or her intended action, and shall provide a reasonable opportunity, of not less ... 	(c) In the event the owner, occupant or other responsible person fails to cure such violation after such notice and cure period, the Planning and Development Director may take any one or more of the following actions: 	(1) Stop work order.
(2) Cease and desist order.
(3) Withhold certificate of occupancy.
(4) Suspension, revocation or modification of permit.
(5) Removal of illegal structures.
(6) Restoration of vegetative cover.
(7) Clean Water Act notifications.
1307.05 Penalties.
(a) Civil penalties.
(b) Criminal penalties.
(1) For intentional and flagrant violations of this Development Code, or intransigence on the part of the owner, occupant or other responsible person, the Planning and Development Director may issue a citation to the owner, occupant or other responsib... 	(2) In addition to any criminal penalty imposed by the court, the City may recover all attorneys’ fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this Development Code from the convicted party or parties responsible for the violation.
1307.06 Other Remedies.
(a) Equitable relief.
(1) In any case in which a violation of this Development Code has occurred, the City Council, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may petition for a restraining order, injunction, abatement, or take any other appropriate legal action or pro... 	(2) If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or if any building, structure or land is used in violation of this Development Code, the City Council or any adjacent or other proper...  	(b) Remedies not exclusive.
Section 1308.
Liability.
(a) Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this Development Code, nor the issuance of a permit, nor the compliance with provisions of this Code, shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property othe... 	(b) Any permit or other authorization issued in error or otherwise issued contrary to the requirements of this Development Code, or authorizing construction activity or use on a property not allowed by this Development Code, is null and void on its fa...    	14 Definitions 2019.9.9 	Article 14.
Interpretation and Definitions 	Section 1401.
Purpose 	Section 1402.
Interpretation.
1402.01 Responsibility for Interpretation.
(a) The Planning and Development Director shall be responsible for the interpretation of the requirements, standards, definitions, or any other provision of this Development Code.
(b) Interpretations of the Planning and Development Director may be appealed under the provisions of this Development Code relating to Appeals.
1402.02 Use of Figures and Examples for Illustration.
1402.03 Use of Words and Phrases.
(a) Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular.
(b) Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
(c) The word “structure” includes the word “building;” a “building” is a type of structure.
(d) The word “erected” includes the words “constructed,” “moved,” “located,” or “relocated.” 	(e) The word “lot” includes the words “plot” or “parcel.” 	(f) The words “zoning map” or “zoning atlas” means the Official Zoning Map of the City of Duluth, Georgia.
(g) The words “road,” “street,” “highway,” and “thoroughfare” have the same meaning with regard to the requirements and restrictions of this Code.
(h) The word “person” includes the words “individuals,” “firms,” “partnerships,” “corporations,” “associations,” “governmental bodies,” and all other legal entities.
(i) The words “shall,” “will,” “is to,” and “must” are always mandatory and never discretionary.
(j) The words “may” and “should” are discretionary.
(k) The word “and” indicates that all of the conditions, requirements, or factors so connected must be met or fulfilled, while the word “or” indicates that at least one condition, requirement or factor so connected must be met.
(l) The term “such as” is intended to introduce one or more examples in illustration of a requirement or point, and is intended to mean “including, but not limited, to the following.” 	(m) The terms “include” or “including,” when used to introduce a list of items, is not intended to be exclusive only to the items on the list, but is intended to mean “including, but not limited to, the following.” 	(n) The verbs “zone” and “rezone” have the same meaning and refer to the act of amending the Official Zoning Map through the process established by this Development Code.
(o) The nouns “zone,” “zoning district,” and “district” have the same meaning and refer to the zoning districts established under this Development Code.
(p) The word “day” means a calendar day unless otherwise specified as a “work” day or “business” day, which means Monday through Friday exclusive of City-recognized holidays.
(q) The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended, arranged, or designed exclusively to be used or occupied by a particular use or function.” 	(r) References to the “City” and to the City Council and any public officials or appointed bodies of the City not otherwise named by political jurisdiction or defined in this Development Code shall always mean the City of Duluth, Georgia, and its gove... 	(1) The Planning Commission, created as such and appointed as such by the Duluth City Council.
(2) The Zoning Board of Appeals, created as such and appointed as such by the Duluth City Council.
(3) The City Manager, appointed as such by the Duluth City Council, or the City Manager’s designee.
(4) The City Attorney, appointed as such by the Duluth City Council, or the City Attorney’s designee.
(5) The Planning and Development Director, the City official appointed as such, or the Planning and Development Director’s designee.
(6) The Public Works Director, the City official appointed as such, or the Public Works Director’s designee.
(7) Other City officials or employees, such as a “building inspector” shall mean the City official or employee appointed as such by their respective department director.
(s) References to an administrative department or committee of the City of Duluth shall always mean the department or committee created by the City Council as such.
These include: 	(1) Department of Planning and Development: References to action by the “Planning and Development Department” shall mean action by the Planning and Development Director or by that administrative official to whom responsibility for that action has been... 	(2) Public Works Department: A reference to action by the “Public Works Department” shall mean action by the Public Works Director by that administrative official to whom responsibility for that action has been assigned by the Public Works Director.
(3) City Engineer: A reference to action by the “City Engineer” shall mean action by that administrative official to whom responsibility for that action has been assigned by the Planning and Development Director.
(t) References to other public officials, departments, or appointed bodies, unless otherwise specified, shall always mean such persons or bodies having jurisdiction over or relative to the City of Duluth, Georgia.
These include: 	(1) The Clerk of the Superior Court of Gwinnett County, Georgia.
(2) The Gwinnett County Health Department, and its Environmental Services Division.
(3) The Atlanta Regional Commission (ARC).
(4) The Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
(5) The Georgia Departments of Community Affairs (DCA), Transportation (GDOT), Human Resources (DHR), Natural Resources (DNR), and DNR’s Environmental Protection Division (EPD).
(6) The United States Army Corps of Engineers, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
1402.04 Meaning of Words and Phrases.
(a) All words and phrases are to be interpreted within the context of the sentence, paragraph, subsection, section, and Article in which they occur.
(b) Words and phrases specifically relating to a category of use of land or a structure that are defined in this Development Code shall be interpreted as defined herein without regard to other meanings in common or ordinary use, unless the context of ... 	(c) Other words and phrases specifically defined in this Development Code shall be interpreted as defined herein without regard to other meanings in common or ordinary use, unless the context of the word or phrase indicates otherwise.
Words and phrase... 	(d) Definitions are clearly identified as such and are located throughout this Development Code in the Articles or Sections to which they most readily refer.
All definitions, regardless of location within a particular Article of this Code, apply equal...
Section 1403.
Glossary of Definitions 	Accessory Structures and Uses.
A detached structure and/or use on the same lot with, and of a size and nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal structure and/or use of land.
Accidental Discharge.
An illicit discharge that occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
Active Use.
Any principal, conditional, or accessory use that by its nature does not require non-transparent walls facing a public street or involves the storage of goods or vehicles.
Addition (to an existing building).
Any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a fire wall.
Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a fire wa...
Adult Entertainment Establishment.
A commercial establishment licensed in accordance with the City's Adult Entertainment Ordinance, as amended, where adult entertainment, as defined in said Ordinance, is sponsored, allowed, encouraged, condoned, pre...
Adult Entertainment.
Adult entertainment, as defined in the City's Adult Entertainment Ordinance, as amended, by an employee(s) at a properly licensed adult entertainment facility.
Alteration of a Building.
Any change, addition, or modification in construction of the structural members of a building, such as walls, partitions, columns, beams, or girders, any change that results in an addition to enclosed floor area of a buildin... 	Antenna.
(i) Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services or other wireless communications; or (ii) Communications equipment similar to...
Apartment.
See “Multi-Family Dwelling.” 	Applicable Codes.
Uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization to the extent such codes have been adopted by the State of Georgia or the City or are otherwise applicable ...
Applicant.
Any person that submits an application.
Applicant (Stormwater).
A person submitting a post-development stormwater management application and plan for approval.
Application (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
A written request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to: (i) collocate a small wireless facility in a right of way; or (ii) install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole in a right o... 	Aquifer.
Any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Architecturally Treated.
A structure that is constructed of or covered with such materials as brick, stone, painted or treated wood, or stucco, or covered with artificial representations of such materials that are visually undistinguishable from the ... 	Area of Future-Conditions Flood Hazard.
The land area that would be inundated by the 1%-annual-chance flood based on future-conditions hydrology (100-year future-conditions flood).
Area of Shallow Flooding.
A designated AO or AH zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from 1 to 3 feet, and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and inde... 	Area of Special Flood Hazard.
The land subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
This includes all floodplain and flood prone areas at or below the base flood elevation (including A, A1-30, A-99, AE, AO, AH, and AR on the FHBM ... 	Authority Pole.
A pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf of the City.
Such term shall not include poles, support structures, electric transmission structures, or equipment of any type owned by an electric supplier.
Banner.
See “Sign, Banner.” 	Basal Area.
The cross-sectional area expressed in square inches, of a tree trunk at diameter breast-height (DBH) expressed herein in terms of “units” per acre.
Base Flood.
The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, also known as the one hundred-year flood.
Base Flood Elevation or BFE.
The highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Basement.
The lower level of a building having a floor-to-ceiling height of at least 6½ feet and a portion of its floor subgrade (below ground level) on at least one side.
Beacon.
A stationary or revolving light that flashes or projects illumination, single or multi-colored, in any manner that is intended to attract or divert attention however, this term is not intended to include any kind of lighting device that is re... 	Best Management Practices (BMPs).
Sound conservation and engineering practices that prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sedimen... 	Block.
A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets (other than alleys), railroads, or other rights-of-way, or boundaries of the development within which the block is located.
Board (DNR).
The Board of Natural Resources.
Buffer: 	(1) Construction Buffer.
A type of buffer which is temporary and remains in effect during the construction of a project.
(2) Natural Buffer.
Buffers that contain deciduous or perennial vegetation, including evergreen shrubs and trees suitable to local growing conditions that provide an opaque visual screen during all seasons of the year.
(3) Stream Buffer.
The area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of a stream in its existing or enhanced state of vegetation.
(4) Structural Buffer.
A buffer that creates a visual screen through construction of a solid wooden fence, decorative masonry wall, earthen berm, or combination of fence or wall with an earthen berm, which may be supplemented with vegetation, so as t... 	(5) Watershed Buffer.
A natural or enhanced vegetated area with no or limited minor land disturbances, such as trails and picnic areas, located adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed.
(6) Zoning Buffer.
Land area used to visibly separate one use from another through screening and distance to shield or block noise, light, glare, or visual or other conditions, to block physical to non-similar areas, or to reduce air pollution, dust, ...  	Buildable Area of Lot.
The area of lot within the setback lines as defined by this Development Code.
Building.
Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal, process, equipment, goods or material of any kind.
Building Canopy.
See under “Canopy”.
Building Height.
The height of a building is the vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building to the highest point on the deck line of a mansard roof, the highest edge on a shed roof, or t... 	Building Line.
A line formed by the outer face of the exterior wall of a building, or portion thereof, and the surface of the ground.
Building, Main.
A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated.
Also referred to as a “Principal Building.” 	Building Sign.
A sign that is fastened to, (in any manner), projects from, or is placed upon the exterior wall, or a window, door, or roof of a building.
The term “building sign” includes, but is not limited, to the following: 	(1) Awning Sign.
A sign imposed, mounted, or painted on an awning.
(2) Building Marker.
A sign composed of concrete, bronze, or other permanent material that is built into the surface of the building at the time of its construction.
(3) Canopy Sign.
A sign imposed, mounted, or painted on a canopy, as defined herein.
(4) Mansard Sign.
A sign imposed, mounted, or painted on the fascia portion of a mansard roof.
(5) Marquee Sign.
Any sign attached flat against or on a permanent marquee of a building.
(6) Projecting Sign.
A sign affixed flat to a wall and extending more than 6 inches from the surface of such wall, or any sign attached to and extending at an angle from a wall surface (usually perpendicular).
(7) Roof Sign.
A sign that is mounted on, applied to, or otherwise structurally supported by the roof of a building (other than the fascia portion of a mansard roof).
(8) Under-Canopy Sign.
A display attached to the underside of a marquee or building canopy and protruding over a pedestrian walkway.
(9) Wall (or Façade) Sign.
A sign that is fastened to, painted, on or placed directly on the exterior wall of a building façade or building canopy, with the sign face parallel to the wall or canopy face.
(10)  Window Sign.
A sign that is applied, painted, or placed on, behind, or inside a windowpane or a glass door and intended to be viewed from outside the building.
Building Story.
See “Story, Building.” 	Business Park.
One or more buildings located on a property in common ownership, management, or operation, of units that are owned, leased, or rented primarily for office, institutional, or light industrial purposes.
Caliper.
A standard of trunk measurement for understory or replacement trees.
Caliper inches are measured at the height of 6 inches above the ground for trees up to and including 4-inch caliper and 12 inches above the ground for trees larger than 4-i... 	Canopy: 	(1) Building Canopy.
A permanent roof-like structure projecting from a building and open on at least one side for the purpose of shielding a pedestrian walkway from the elements.
(2) Freestanding Canopy.
A freestanding roof-like structure supported by columns intended to shield a vehicular driveway or service area from the elements.
Certified Personnel.
A person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Channel.
A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
Character Area.
A portion of the city designated as any one of the various “character areas” created within the City’s Comprehensive Plan and shown as to its boundaries and extent on the Future Development Map subtitled “Character Areas” included as ... 	Chattahoochee Corridor.
All land within 2,000 feet of the banks of the Chattahoochee River, including any impoundments thereon, or within the floodplain, whichever is greater, from directly below Buford Dam downstream to the downstream limits of Ful... 	City Separate Storm Sewer System.
Any conveyance or system of conveyances which is: 	(1) Owned or maintained by the City; 	(2) Not a combined sewer; and, 	(3) Not part of a publicly owned treatment works.
Clean Water Act.
The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.
§ 1251 et seq.
), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Clear Cutting.
The broad removal of all trees and /or vegetation from a particular area.
Clearing.
The removal of vegetation from a property, whether by cutting or other means.
Collocate or Collocation.
To install, mount, modify, or replace a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole, decorative pole, or support structure.
Column Sign.
See under “Freestanding Sign”.
Commercial Speech.
The expression of an idea, opinion, or message that directs or attracts attention to a business operated for profit; or to a product, commodity, or service for sale, trade, barter, swap, or lease; or to any other commercial interes... 	Commission (GSWCC).
The Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Communications Facility.
The set of equipment and network components, including wires and cables and associated equipment and network components, used by a communications service provider to provide communications services.
Communication Services.
Cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 522(6); telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(53); information service as defined in 47 U.S.C.
Section 153(24), as each such term existed on January 1, 2019; or wirele... 	Communication Services Provider.
A provider of communications services.
Concealment Element.
Any design feature, including but not limited to painting, landscaping, shielding requirements, and restrictions on location, proportions, or physical dimensions in relation to the surrounding area or the structure which supports...
Condominium.
A multiple unit dwelling in which each dwelling unit is owned or financed by the occupant, but in which halls, entrance ways, common areas, and underlying lands are owned jointly.
Conifer Tree.
Any tree with needle leaves and a woody cone fruit including, but not limited to, pine, juniper, and cedar species.
Conservation Easement.
An agreement between a land owner and the (local jurisdiction) or other government agency or land trust that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner’s land by limiting the amount and type of development that ... 	Consolidated Application (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
An application for the collocation of multiple small wireless facilities on existing poles or support structures or for the installation, modification, or replacement of multiple poles and the ... 	Construction Activity.
Activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES general construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance.
Such activities include but are not limited to c... 	Construction Buffer.
See under “Buffer”.
Conveyance.
An aboveground or underground natural or manmade drainage feature, that provides for the collection and movement of stormwater, and shall include but not be limited to concrete or metal pipes, ditches, depressions, swales, roads with drai... 	Conveyor Car Wash. A commercial car wash where the car moves on a conveyor belt during the wash.
The driver of the vehicle can remain in the vehicle or wait outside of the vehicle.
Corridor, Watershed.
All land within the buffer areas established adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed and within other setback areas specified in this Code Division.
CPESC.
Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control with current certification by Certified Profession in Erosion and Sediment Control Inc., a corporation registered in North Carolina, that is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc. 	Critical Root Zone.
The minimum area beneath a tree that must be left undisturbed in order to preserve a sufficient Critical Root Zone (CR) will typically be represented by a concentric circle centering on the tree’s trunk with a radius equal in feet...
Customary Home Occupation.
An occupation, service, profession or enterprise conducted entirely within a dwelling and which is carried on by a resident thereof and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential d... 	Cut.
A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface.
Also known as excavation.
Daycare Facility.
The use of a building or premises for the care and supervision of children (who do not reside on the property), for periods of less than 24 hours.
Establishments are licensed or commissioned by the Georgia Department of Human Resou... 	(1) Family Day Care.
An accessory use to a private residence that operates as a daycare facility for up to six children, including the operator's own pre-school age children.
(2) Group Day Care Home.
A daycare facility for 18 or fewer children.
(3) Day Care Center.
A daycare facility for 19 or more children.
Days.
The term “days” shall mean working days exclusive of holidays authorized by the Mayor and Council and weekends, unless the term is stated as “calendar days” or the context implies otherwise.
Decorative Pole (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
An authority pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic purposes.
Density.
The number of dwelling units situated on or to be developed on a net acre (or smaller unit) of land, that shall be calculated by taking the total gross acreage and subtracting any land identified as a flood prone area as defined in the Flood... 	Density Factor.
A unit of measure used to prescribe the calculated tree coverage on a site.
Department (DNR).
The Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Design Professional.
A professional licensed by the State of Georgia in the field of: engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Contro...
Detention, Stormwater.
The temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention Facility.
A detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer.
A person who undertakes land development activities.
Development: 	(1) Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, clearing, grubbing, grading, paving, any other installation of impervious cover, excavation or drillin... 	(2) A land development or land development project.
Development Activity.
Any alteration of the natural environment that requires the approval of a development or site plan and issuance of a development permit.
Development Activity shall also include the “thinning” or removal of trees from undeveloped... 	Development Permit.
A permit issued by the City that authorizes Development Activity, and includes, but is not limited to, a soil erosion permit, clearing and grubbing permit, land disturbance permit or building permit.
Development Plans.
The detailed and professional plans showing the layout and design, site work and construction activities proposed for a project (other than architectural building plans) and including the Preliminary Plat or Site Plan (as applicabl...
Diameter Breast Height (DBH).
The standard measure of overstory tree size (for trees existing on a site).
The tree trunk is measured at a height of 4½ feet above the ground.
If a tree splits into multiple trunks below 4½ feet, measure the trunk at it... 	Director (DNR).
The Director of the Environmental Protection Division or an authorized representative.
Discharge.
The direct or indirect release of water, fluid, materials or other matter to a conveyance or surface that drains to a conveyance.
District.
The 15th Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division (EPD).
The Environmental Protection Division (EPD) of the Department of Natural Resources.
Drainage Easement.
An easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage Structure.
A device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for storm wate...
DRASTIC.
The standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600-2-87-035.
(Note: the DRASTIC methodology is the most widely used techn... 	Drip Line.
A line on the ground established by a vertical plane extending from a tree’s outermost branch tips down to the ground; i.e.
the line enclosing the area directly beneath the tree’s crown from which rainfall would drip.
Duplex.
See “Two-Family Dwelling (Duplex).” 	Dwelling.
Any building, or portion thereof, that is designed for or used for residential purposes.
Dwelling, Multi-Family.
See “Multi-Family Dwelling.” 	Dwelling, Single-Family Detached.
See “Single-Family Detached Dwelling.” 	Dwelling, Two-Family (Duplex).
See “Two-Family Dwelling (Duplex).” 	Dwelling Unit.
A room or suite of two or more rooms that is designed for the occupancy, cooking, and sleeping of one person or more than one person living as a single household.
Electric Supplier.
(Small Cell Wireless Facility).
Any electric light and power company subject to regulation by the Georgia Public Service Commission, any electric membership corporation furnishing retail service in this state, and any municipality ... 	Electric Vehicle Charging Station.
A public or private parking space that is served by electric vehicle supply equipment that has as its primary purpose the transfer of electric energy (by conductive or inductive means) to a battery in an electric v... 	Elevated Building.
A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls adequately anchored so a...
Eligible Facilities Request (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
An eligible facilities request as set forth in 47 C.F.R.
§ 1.40001(b)(3), as it existed on January 1, 2019.
Erosion.
The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice, or gravity.
Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Plan: 	(1) A plan that is designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during land disturbance activities.
(2) A plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A.
Chapter 12-7, that includes, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the State General Permit, best management practices, and applicable requirements in Division I of Articl...
Existing Construction.
Any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before December 17, 1975.
Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision.
A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of util...
Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision.
The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, t... 	Extended Detention.
The detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extreme Flood Protection.
Measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Façade.
The exterior vertical surfaces of a building that comprise the front, side or rear wall.
Family.
One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single household, as distinguished from persons occupying a boarding house or motel, as herein defined.
FCC.
The Federal Communications Commissions of the United States.
Feather Banner.
A banner mounted on a pole.
Such signs may be wind-activated (see “sign, animated”) or rigidly mounted in a stationary position.
Fee (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
A one-time, nonrecurring charge based on time and expense.
FEMA.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Festoons.
Strings of light bulbs or other lighted devices, and strings of ribbons, tinsel, pennants, streamers, pinwheels, or other similar devices designed to move in the wind.
Fill.
A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final Stabilization.
All soil-disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certifi...
Finished Grade.
The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flag.
A sign made of paper, woven natural, or synthetic fabric, thin plastic or similar lightweight pliable material that is normally displayed by flying from a pole as a wind-activated device, but is not otherwise defined herein as a banner, pennant...
Flood or Flooding: 	(1) A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from: a. the overflow of inland or tidal waters; or, b. the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
(2) A volume of surface water that is too great to be confined within the banks or walls of a conveyance or stream channel and that overflows onto adjacent lands.
Flood Hazard Boundary Map or FHBM.
An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been defined as zone A.
Flood Insurance Rate Map or FIRM.
An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood Insurance Study or FIS.
The official report by the Federal Insurance Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Floodplain.
Any land area susceptible to flooding.
Floodplain, 100 year.
Those lands subject to flooding that have at least a 1% probability of flooding occurrence in any calendar year, and specifically, the floodplain as shown on the Federal Emergency Management Agency Map (FEMA).
Floodproofing.
Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their conte... 	Floodway or Regulatory Floodway.
The channel of a stream or other watercourse and the adjacent areas of the floodplain which is necessary to contain and discharge the base flood flow without cumulatively increasing the base flood elevation more than ...
Floor Area, Gross.
The sum of all floors of a structure as measured to the outside surfaces of exterior walls or the center of connected or common walls, including; common public areas (such as lobbies), restrooms and hallways, spaces devoted exclusi...
Floor Area, Heated.
The gross floor area of all spaces within a dwelling or dwelling unit that are heated by mechanical means, measured to the inside surfaces of exterior walls, excluding: porches, balconies, attics, unfinished basements, garages, pa...
Floor Area, Single-Family Dwelling.
The floor area of a single-family dwelling is the gross horizontal area of several floors of the one-family residential structure, excluding carports, unfinished basements, attics, and open porches.
Floor, Ground.
The floor of a building that is nearest the surrounding surface of the ground.
Flowing Stream.
Any stream that is portrayed on the most current United States Geologic Survey 7.5 minute quadrangle for the affected area.
Fluorescent Color.
A color that is intense, brilliantly colored, and seemingly emitting light, such as day glow (day-glo) colors.
Freestanding Canopy.
See under “canopy.” 	Freestanding Sign.
A permanent sign that is attached to or part of a completely self-supporting structure, other than a building.
The supporting structure shall be set firmly in or below the ground surface and shall not be attached to any building or... 	(1) Pole Sign.
A sign that is mounted on one or more freestanding stanchions or columns such that the sign body is elevated above the ground by such supporting stanchions or columns, and such supporting stanchions or columns are each less than 10% of ... 	(2) Column Sign.
A sign that is mounted on one or more freestanding stanchions or columns such that the sign body is elevated above the ground by such supporting stanchions or columns, and such supporting stanchions or columns are each 10% of the widt... 	(3) Monument Sign.
A freestanding sign in which the entire bottom of the base of the sign structure is in contact with the ground, providing a solid and continuous background for the sign from the ground to the top of the sign structure; the base of w... 	(4) Hybrid Monument Sign.
A freestanding sign in which the entire bottom of the base of the sign structure is in contact with the ground, but a solid and continuous background for the sign from the ground to the top of the sign structure is not provid...  	Frontage, Lot.
The distance over which the boundary line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
Functionally Dependent Use.
A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
Future Conditions Flood.
The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year based on future-conditions hydrology.
Also known as the 100-year future-conditions flood.
Future-Conditions Flood Elevation.
The flood standard equal to or higher than the base flood elevation.
The future-conditions flood elevation is defined as the highest water surface anticipated at any given point during the future-conditions flood.
Future-Conditions Floodplain.
Any land area susceptible to flooding by the future-conditions flood.
Future-Conditions Hydrology.
The flood discharges associated with projected land-use conditions based on a community's zoning map, comprehensive land-use plans, and/or watershed study projections, and without consideration of projected future constru... 	Generalized Wetlands Map.
The current U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory maps for the City of Duluth, Georgia.
Grading: 	(1) The placement, removal, or movement of earth by use of mechanical equipment on a property.
(2) Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling, and shaping (or any combination thereof) and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Green Infrastructure.
Stormwater management systems that mimic nature by soaking up and storing water.
Greenspace or Open Space.
Permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Ground Cover.
Low growing, spreading plants, other than turf grass, such as, but not limited to, ivy, liriope, juniper, mondo grass, or sedge.
Ground Elevation.
The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Grubbing.
The removal of stumps or roots from a site.
Guy or Guy Wire.
A cable used to support or stabilize a freestanding pole or structure, such as a lattice telecommunications or citizen’s band antenna, utility pole, or traffic signal stanchion.
Hardwood Tree.
Any tree that is not coniferous (cone-bearing).
This definition is based on the colloquialism, and does not necessarily reflect any true qualities of the tree.
Heated Floor Area.
See “Floor Area, Heated.” 	Heavy Truck.
Any vehicle, (except recreational vehicles, vehicles displaying restricted plates, buses used in transportation of chartered parties, and government owned vehicles), used for the transportation of persons for hire or designed, used, or m... 	(1) A power unit having a gross vehicle weight in excess of 26,000 pounds; 	(2) A power unit having three or more axles, regardless of weight; or 	(3) Used in combination, when the weight of such combination exceeds 26,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.
Highest Adjacent Grade.
The highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic District (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
(i) Any district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the secretary of the interior of the United Sta...
Historic Structure.
Any structure that is: 	(1) Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the Nation... 	(2) Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic dis... 	(3) Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary of the interior; or 	(4) Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either: 	(5) By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior, or 	(6) Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
Holiday or Seasonal Event.
A day established as a legal holiday by federal, state or local law; a nationally recognized holiday such as Halloween or Mother’s Day; a nationally recognized calendar season such as Fall or Spring; a religious day or term... 	Hotspot.
An area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater.
Household.
An individual living alone or a group of individuals living together in a single dwelling unit, sharing common use of and access to all living and eating areas, bathrooms, and food preparation areas, who mutually combine their efforts and ...
Hybrid Monument Sign.
See under “Freestanding Sign.” 	Hydrologic Soil Group (HSG).
A Natural Resource Conservation Service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups.
The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to gr...
Illicit Discharge.
Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the city separate storm sewer system.
Illegal Connection.
Shall mean any of the following: 	(1) Any pipe, open channel, drain or other conduit, whether natural or manmade, which is used exclusively to drain a non-stormwater discharge to the City's separate storm sewer system; or 	(2) Any pipe, open channel, drain or other conduit, whether natural or manmade, that was designed, installed or redirected for the purpose of draining a non-stormwater discharge into the City's separate storm sewer system; or 	(3) Any pipe, open channel, drain or other conduit, whether natural or manmade, which is connected to the city separate storm sewer system and which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by the city regardless of w...  	Illuminated Sign.
See “Sign, Illuminated.” 	Impervious Cover.
A surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil.
Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, streets and roads, and any concrete or... 	Impervious Surface.
A man-made structure or surface that prevents the infiltration of storm water into the ground below the structure or surface.
Examples are buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, or patios.
Incidental Sign.
See “Sign, Incidental.” 	Industrial Activity, Regulated.
Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR, section 122.26(b)(14).
Industrial Stormwater Permit.
A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pol... 	Infiltration.
The process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Iridescent Color.
A color that when seen at different angles has a play of lustrous rainbow-like colors; pearlescent.
Inspection and Maintenance Agreement.
A written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded i...
Jurisdictional Wetland.
(1) An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
(2) An area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional Wetland Determination.
A delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C.
§ 1344, as amended.
Kiosk.
A freestanding sign structure, often cylindrical in shape, intended to be viewed from all sides and erected for the purpose of posting signs, notices, or other public announcements.
Kiosks that are composed of flat faces are treated as multi-f... 	Land Development: 	(1) (verb) All activities associated with the conversion of land or the expansion or replacement of an existing use to any new use intended for human operation, occupancy or habitation, other than for agricultural purposes, devoted strictly to the cul... 	(2) (noun) Where appropriate to the context, the term development also may be used to denote a specific subdivision or project that is a single entity or intended to be constructed as in interrelated whole, whether simultaneously or in phases.
Land Development Activity.
Those actions or activities that comprise, facilitate, or result in land development.
Land Development Project.
A discrete land development undertaking.
Land Disturbance.
Any activity that may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, clearing and grubbing, dredging, grading, excav... 	Land Disturbance Activity.
Those actions or activities that comprise, facilitate or result in land disturbance.
Land Disturbance Permit.
Any permit (other than a Building Permit) issued by the City of Duluth that authorizes clearing or grading activities on a site or portion of a site.
Said permit may be Clearing, Clearing and Grubbing, Grading, or a Developme... 	Landscape Materials.
Any combination of living plant materials, nonliving materials (such as rocks, pebbles, wood chips, mulch and pavers) and decorative features such as sculpture, patterned walks, fountains, and pools.
This definition includes synt... 	Landscape Strip.
Land area located within the boundary of a lot and required to be set aside and used for landscaping upon which only limited encroachments are authorized.
Large Water Supply Watershed.
A watershed containing 100 square miles or more of land within the drainage basin upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake.
Larger Common Plan of Development or Sale.
A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale.
For the purposes of this paragraph, “plan” means an announcement; piece of... 	Law.
Includes any and all federal, state, or local laws, statutes, common laws, codes, rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances.
Leased Sign.
An agreement by which a property owner conveys (usually for a specified rent), to other persons, permission to erect and maintain a sign upon their property.
LED Sign.
Any sign or portion thereof that uses light-emitting diode technology or other similar semiconductor technology to produce an illuminated image, picture, or message of any kind whether the image, picture, or message is moving or stationary.... 	Local Issuing Authority (LIA).
The Duluth City Council or its assigned or designated representative, which shall be responsible for administering this Development Code and has been certified pursuant to subsection (a) O.C.G.A.
12-7-8.
Lot.
A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed, or built upon.
(1) Corner Lot.
A lot that occupies the interior angle of two street lines that make an angle of less than 135 degrees with each other.
(2) Double Frontage Lot.
A lot other than a corner lot abutting upon two or more streets.
(3) Interior Lot.
A lot having frontage on only one street.
(4) Flag Lot.
A lot having a street frontage and initial lot width notably less wide than the body of the lot (usually where the principal building is intended to be located), such that the lot appears to be a “flag” on a “pole” extending to the stree...
Lot Area.
The computed ground area bounded by the front, side, and rear lot lines.
Lot Building Area.
The area of a lot encompassed by front, sides, and rear yard setbacks or building line as required by the Development Code.
Lot Coverage.
The computed ground area that is covered by buildings, structures, accessory structures, driveways, parking areas, and any other impervious surface.
Lot Depth.
The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
Lot Line.
The boundary dividing a given lot from the street or adjacent lots; the boundary defining the limit of ownership of a property.
(1) Front Lot Line.
Any boundary line of a lot that abuts a street.
A lot adjacent to more than one street will have more than one front lot line.
(2) Rear Lot Line.
Any boundary line of a lot that does not intersect with a street right-of-way line and is not a front lot line.
(3) Side Lot Line.
Any boundary line of a lot that intersects with a street right-of-way line and is not a front lot line.
Lot of Record.
A lot or parcel whose existence, location, and dimensions have been recorded in the Office of the Clerk to Superior Court of Gwinnett County.
Lot Width.
The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured along the front principal building line.
Lowest Floor.
The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement.
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a buildi...
Manufactured Home: 	(1) A structure, transportable in one or more sections that, in the traveling mode, is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and that is built on a permanent chassis and desi... 	(2) When used strictly in regard to floodplain management, a building, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
The ter...
Manufactured Home Park.
A tract of land in individual ownership that has been developed with all necessary facilities and services for the placement of two or more manufactured homes for non-transient use.
Marquee Sign.
See under “Building Sign.” 	Mean Sea Level.
The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain.
For purposes of this article the term is synonymous with national geodetic vertical datum (... 	Metropolitan River Protection Act.
A state law referenced as O.C.G.A.
12-5-440 et seq., that addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Micro Wireless Facility.
A small wireless facility not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
Miscellaneous Building Sign.
A building sign (as defined herein), other than a principal building sign, a temporary event sign, or an incidental sign, commonly found on the wall of a nonresidential use property.
Miscellaneous Freestanding Sign.
A freestanding sign, other than a freestanding principal sign, temporary event sign, or incidental sign, commonly found on multi-family and nonresidential use properties located at entrance and exit driveways, drive-t...
Mobile Home.
A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that, in the travelling mode, is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and is built on a permanent c... 	Modular Home.
A factory fabricated, transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a structure to be used for residential purposes.
A modular home shall be designed and const... 	Monument Sign.
See under “freestanding sign.” 	Mobile Kitchens.
Mobile Kitchens are motorized vehicles that provide the ability to independently cook, prepare, and sell food.
Multi-Family Dwelling.
A residential building designed exclusively for occupancy by three or more families in separate dwelling units living independently of each other.
(1) Apartment.
A multi-family dwelling in which a dwelling unit may be located above another.
(2) Townhouse.
A multi-family dwelling in which the dwelling units may adjoin one another only at the vertical walls.
(3) Triplex.
A detached residential structure containing three dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than four families living independently of each other.
(4) Quadruplex.
A detached residential structure containing four dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than four families living independently of each other.
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD).
As corrected in 1929, is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Stormwater Discharge Permit.
A permit issued by the state EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, w... 	Natural Buffer.
See under “Buffer.” 	Natural Ground Surface.
The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation, or filling.
Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU).
Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension.
This technique is used to estimate the extent of... 	New Construction.
Any structure (see definition in this Section) for which the "start of construction" commenced after December 17, 1975 and includes any subsequent improvements to the structure.
New Development.
A land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
New Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision.
A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilitie... 	NOI.
A Notice of Intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the State General Permit.
Non-Development Activity.
Any alteration of the natural environment that does not require development or site plan approval, but that would include the proposed removal or destruction of any trees.
Any removal of trees that constitutes Development Ac... 	Nonpoint Source Pollution.
A form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy met... 	Non-Stormwater.
Any surface flow, runoff, drainage, or discharge that is not composed entirely of stormwater and which may include pollutants, but that excludes: 	(1) Water from those sources described in this article; and/or, 	(2) Any discharge permitted under NPDES permit or order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state and the federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirement...
Nonresidential Use.
See “Use, nonresidential.” 	Nonstructural Stormwater Management Practice or Nonstructural Practice.
Any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or o... 	North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
A vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
NOT.
A Notice of Termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the State General Permit.
Off-Site Facility.
A stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-Site Facility.
A stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Open Space.
See “Greenspace or Open Space.” 	Operator.
The party or parties who have: (A) operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or (B) day-to-day operational control of those activitie...
Outdoor Lighting.
(1) Candela.
A measure of luminous intensity in a certain direction.
Useful in determining how much light is shining out of a fixture and in what direction.
One candela is one lumen per steradian (lm/sr).
(2) Candela Diagram.
Diagram of light power produced by a source and the value of luminous intensity is given directions.
A picture of how much light is shining out of a fixture and in what direction.
(3) Candlepower.
Luminous intensity expressed in candelas.
(4) Color Rendering Index (CRI).
A measurement of the amount of color shift that objects undergo when lighted by a light source as compared with the color of those same objects when seen under a reference light source of comparable color temperare.
CR... 	(5) Contrast.
The ratio of the luminance of an object to that of its immediate background.
(6) Cut-off Angle.
The angle, measured up from nadir, between the vertical axis and the first line of sight at which the bare source is not visible.
(7) Efficacy.
A measurement of the ratio of light produced by a light source to the electrical power used to produce that quality of light, expressed in lumens per wall.
Efficacy is an important determinant of energy efficiency in lighting equipment.
(8) Footcandle.
A unit of illuminance.
One foot footcandle is one lumen per square foot (lm/ft2).
(9) Floodlight.
A light fixture designed to light an object to a luminance greater than its surroundings.
The beam spread of floodlights may range from narrow field angles of 10 degrees to wide angles (more than 100 degrees).
(10) Fluorescent Lamp.
A lamp that produces light by means of electric arc that excites a phosphor coating deposited on the inside of a glass bulb.
(11) Glare.
The sensation produced by luminances within the visual field that is sufficiently greater than the luminance to which the eyes are adapted to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance or visibility.
(12) Glare, Blinding.
Glare that is so intense that for an appreciable length of time after it has been removed, no object can be seen.
(13) Glare, Direct.
Glare resulting from insufficiently shielded light sources or areas of excessive luminance within the field of view.
(14) Glare, Disability.
The effect of stray light in the eye whereby visibility and visual performance are reduced.
(15) Glare, Discomfort.
A Glare that produces discomfort.
It does not necessarily interfere with visual performance or visibility.
(16) Glare, Reflected.
A Glare resulting from reflections of high luminances in polished or glossy surfaces in the field of view.
(17) High Intensity Discharge (HID) Lamp.
A lamp that generates large quantities of light with electric arches through small tubes.
The tubes also contain phosphors that generate additional light output and color.
(18) Illuminance.
The amount of light falling on a surface- measured in lux (lx) or foot-candles (fc).
(19) Illumination.
An alternative term for illuminance.
Commonly used in qualitative or general sense to designate the act of illuminating or the state of being illuminated.
(20) Lamp.
A generic term for a man made source of light (e.g.
bulb).
(21) Light.
Radiant energy that is capable of exciting the retina and producing a visual sensation.
The visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum extends from about 380 to 770 nanometers.
(22) Luminaire.
A complete lighting unit, consisting of a lamps, reflector, refractor, or lens, wiring, and sockets.
Often referred as “fixture.” 	(23) Light Loss Factor (LLF).
The ratio of illuminance for a given area to the value that would occur if lamps operated at their initial rated lumen output and if no system variation or depreciation occurred.
(24) Light Trespass.
A subjective perception of undesirable illumination including the following examples: 	The classic “light shining in a window” 	Unwanted light on an adjacent property 	Excessive brightness in the normal field of vision (nuisance glare) 	(25) Lumens.
In physics, the SI unit of luminous flux.
Photometrically, it is the luminous flux emitted per second within a unit solid angle (one steradian) by a point source having a uniform luminous intensity of one candela.
(26) Luminaire.
A complete lighting unit consisting of one or more lamps (light sources) together with the parts designed to control the light distribution, and other mechanical and electrical components.
(27) Luminaire, Cutoff.
A luminaire light distribution is designated as cut off when candlepower per 1000 lamp lumens does not numerically exceed 25 (2.5%) at an angle of 90 above nadir (horizontal), and 100 (10%) at a vertical angle of 80 above nadir.
(28) Luminance.
The emitted or reflected light from a surface; related directly to perceived “brightness.”  The unit of luminance is the candela per square meter (cd/m2).
(29) Luminous Flux.
Radiant flux (radiant power); the time rate of flow of radiant energy evaluated in terms of a standardized visual response.
(30) Luminous Intensity.
The luminous flux per unit solid angle in the direction in question.
May be expressed in candelas or lumens per steradian (lm/sr).
(31) Lux.
The SI unit of illuminance.
One lux is one lumen per square meter (lm/m2).
(32) Nighttime.
The hours between the end of evening civil twilight and the beginning of morning civil twilight.
Civil twilight ends in the evening when the center of sun’s disk is 6 degrees below the horizon, and begins in the morning when the cente... 	(33) Spill Light.
Light shining beyond a facility that may annoy occupants of the adjacent property.
(34) Watt.
A unit used to measure electric power.
One watt equals one joule/second.
Outfall.
The location where storm water in a discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, (if there is a receiving water on site), becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Overbank Flood Protection.
Measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e.
flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream p... 	Overstory Tree.
Those trees that compose the top layer or canopy of vegetation and will generally reach a mature height of greater than 40 feet.
Owner.
The legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Parapet Wall.
A building façade that extends above the eave line or edge of a roof.
Parcel.
See “Lot.” 	Pennant.
A lightweight plastic, fabric, or similar material designed to move in the wind; pennants are often suspended from a rope, wire, or string in series.
The term “pennant” shall not include a “banner” or a “flag” as regulated by this Developmen... 	Perennial Stream: 	(1) A watercourse having a source, terminus, banks, and channel through which water flows on a continuous basis as depicted on the most recent United States Geological Survey 7.5-minute quadrangle map (scale 1:24,000).
(2) A stream that flows throughout the whole year as indicated on a USGS Quad map.
Permit, Land Disturbance.
The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this Development Code.
Permit (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
A written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format, required to be issued by the City to initiate, continue, or complete the collocation of a small wireless facility or the installation, modification, or...
Person.
Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of ...
Person (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an authority.
Personal Care Home.
A profit or non-profit facility, home, or structure licensed by the State of Georgia for the protective care of persons, both adult and adolescent, who need a watchful environment, but do not have an illness, injury, or disability... 	(1) Congregate Personal Care Home.
A personal care home for adults that offers care to more than 15 persons.
(2) Family Personal Care Home.
A personal care home for adults that offers care to no more than six persons.
(3) Group Personal Care Home.
A personal care home for adults that offers care to no more than 15 persons.
Personal (Noncommercial) Speech.
The expression of an idea, opinion, or message that does not direct or attract attention to a business operated for profit; or to a product, commodity, or service for sale, trade, barter, swap, or lease; or to any oth... 	Pervious Surface: 	(1) Materials that allow for water penetration such as mulch, crushed stone, elevated boardwalks with spacing between boards, and specially formulated pervious concrete designed to allow for water penetration; 	(2) All that area of land that can be landscaped or planted, allows natural passage through by water, and is not covered by man-made materials or structures such as buildings or paving.
Phase or Phased.
Sub-parts or segments of construction projects where the sub-part or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Planned Center.
A single office, medical, commercial, or industrial property that is designed or intended for occupancy by two or more principal businesses that are separately owned and have no corporate relationship.
A planned center may consist of ... 	Plantable Area.
The pervious surface area (expressed in square footage) available for the preservation or planting of trees on a single-family subdivision lot.
Plantable Area shall not include that portion of the lot that is covered by buildings and ... 	Pocket Park.
A “pocket park” or “green” is a landscaped area larger than 0.33 acres constructed for community gathering or play, or visual enhancement.
Pole (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
A vertical pole such as a utility, lighting, traffic, or similar pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material that is lawfully located or to be located within a right of way, including without limitation ...
Pole Sign.
See under “Freestanding Sign.” 	Pollutant.
Shall mean anything that causes or contributes to pollution.
Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise... 	Pollution.
The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, thermal and radiological integrity of water.
Pollution Susceptibility.
The relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area.
Pollution Susceptibility Map.
The relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the Department of Natural Resources, using the DRASTIC methodology.
(Georgia Department of Natural Resources Hydrologic Atlas 20: Groundwater Pollution Susceptibility M... 	Portable Sign.
See “Sign, Portable.” 	Post-Development.
The time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Premises.
Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Pre-Development.
The time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority.
Where phase...
Principal Building.
The building in which is conducted the principal use of the parcel on which it is located.
Parcels with multiple principal uses may have multiple principal buildings, but storage buildings, garages, and other clearly accessory use...
Principal Building Setback Line.
A line delineating the minimum allowable distance between a property line (or the right-of-way line) of an abutting street and a principal building on a lot.
(1) Front Building Setback.
The minimum allowable distance between the right-of-way line of any abutting street and any part of a principal building on a lot.
The front setback distance is applied along the full length of the right-of-way line and is ... 	(2) Rear Building Setback.
The minimum allowable distance between a rear lot line and any part of a principal building on a lot.
The rear building setback extends along and is parallel to the full length of the rear lot line.
(3) Side Building Setback.
The minimum allowable distance between a side lot line and any part of a principal building on a lot.
The side building setback extends along and is parallel to the side lot line between the front building setback and a rear...
Principal Sign.
See “Sign, Principal.” 	Principal Use.
The specific, primary purpose for which land or a building is used, such as residential living, professional services, retail sales or manufacturing.
Project, Development.
The entire proposed development project, regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Project Entrance Sign.
See “Sign, Project Entrance”.
Properly Designed.
Designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the “Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia” published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the yea... 	Protection Area or Stream Protection Area.
With respect to a stream, the combined areas of all required buffers and setbacks applicable to such stream.
Quadruplex.
A detached residential structure containing four dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than four families living independently of each other.
Rate (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
A recurring charge.
Recharge Area.
Any portion of the earth's surface, where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
Reconditioning Work (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
The activities associated with substantially painting, reconditioning, improving, or repairing authority poles.
Recreational Vehicle.
A vehicle which is: 	(1) Built on a single chassis; 	(2) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection; 	(3) Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by light duty truck; and, 	(4) Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Recycled Water System.
A water system that captures and reuses water previously used in wash or rinse cycles.
Redevelopment.
A land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increas...
Regional Stormwater Management Facility or Regional Facility.
Stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of ...
Regulated Activity (Discharge).
Any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water...
Repetitive Loss.
Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals, or exceeds 25% of the market value of the ...
Replace, Replacement, or Replacing (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
to replace a pole or decorative pole with a new pole or a new decorative pole, similar in design, size, and scale to the existing pole or decorative pole consistent with 47 C.F.R.
§ 1...
Replacement Work.
The activities associated with replacing an authority pole.
Replacement Planting.
The planting of trees on a site that before development had more trees, and after development shall have fewer trees per acre.
Residential or Community Shelter.
A facility licensed by the State Department of Human Resources for the purpose of receiving, on a temporary basis, persons who are subject to family violence as defined by Georgia Statutes 19-13-20 and 19-13-22.
Residential Use.
See “Use, Residential.” 	Right of Way (Small Cell Wireless).
Generally, property or any interest therein, whether or not in the form of a strip, which is acquired for or devoted to a public road; provided, however, that such term shall apply only to property or an interest t... 	Right-of-Way.
A portion of land over which a local or state government has designated a right of use.
Right-of-Way Line.
The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a continuous street, sidewalk, railroad, or other public right-of-way.
Riparian.
Belonging or related to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond, or impoundment.
Roadway.
The paved portion of a street from back of curb to back of curb (or edge-to-edge of pavement for streets not having curbs) but excluding driveway aprons, bridges, and large single-and multi-cell culverts that in a hydrologic sense, can be co... 	Roadway Drainage Structure.
A device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material (such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material) that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side ...
Roof Line.
The top of a flat roof or the ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
Roof Sign.
See under “Building Sign.” 	Runoff.
Stormwater runoff.
Screening.
A method of shielding or obscuring one abutting or nearby structure or use from another by opaque fencing, walls, berms, densely planted vegetation, or the like.
Seasonal Event.
See “Holiday or Seasonal Event.” 	Sediment.
Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation.
The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice, or gravity.
Semi-Trailer.
A trailer with a set or sets of wheels at the rear, the forward portion of which is designed to be supported by the truck tractor or towing vehicle.
For the purpose of this definition, flatbeds designed to be hauled by truck tractors ar...
Setback.
The distance between a street line or lot line and the building line of a principal building or structure.
Setback, Minimum.
The shortest distance allowed between a street line or lot line and any principal or accessory building on a lot.
Minimum setback requirements for buildings are associated with the type of lot line from which the setback is taken; f... 	(1) Front Building Setback.
The minimum allowable distance between a street line or lot line and the front building line of a principal building or structure, projected to the side lines of the lot and including driveways and parking areas, except whe... 	(2) Rear Building Setback.
The minimum allowable distance between a rear lot line and the building line.
The rear building setback extends along and is parallel to the full length of the rear lot line.
(3) Side Building Setback.
The minimum allowable distance between a side lot line and the building line.
The side building setback extends along and is parallel to the side lot line between the front building setback and a rear building setback (if a...
Setback, Stream.
With respect to a stream, the area (established by the Stream Buffer Protection provisions of Article 8) extending beyond any buffer applicable to the stream.
Shopping Center.
See “Planned Center.” 	Shrub: 	(1) A self-supporting woody plant that may reach a height of less than 15 feet, such as but not limited to, azalea, boxwood, yew, hawthorn, hydrangea, holly, nandina, or camellia.
(2) A woody plant of relatively low height, as distinguished from a tree by having stems and branches rather than a single trunk.
Site (of Development).
The parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the development project is located.
Sign.
Any structure, device, object, design or display that is used or intended to be used to attract the attention of or to convey information to the public, and that is placed in such a way, whether outdoors, indoors, or near a window, as to be in ... 	Sign, A-frame, Sidewalk, or Sandwich.
A temporary, movable sign not secured or attached to the ground or surface which it is located.
This type of sign is typically “A” shaped or in some variation thereof (including a sign displayed on an easel) is u... 	Sign, Aggregate Area.
The combined area of all sign faces of a particular category on a single parcel.
For example the aggregate sign area of all freestanding signs on a parcel is the sum total of the sign face areas of all freestanding signs on such... 	Sign, Animated.
A sign that has moving parts or includes action, motion, or color changes, or the optical illusion of action, motion, or color changes, including signs using electronic ink, signs set in motion by wind or by mechanical means such as t... 	Sign, Banner.
A sign of fabric, thin plastic, or similar lightweight material that is mounted to a pole or a building at one or more edges and is intended or displayed as commercial speech.
Flags displaying noncommercial speech shall not be considere... 	Sign, Billboard.
Any monument sign erected on undeveloped property.
Sign Body.
Portion of a sign structure that is intended or designed primarily to support or display the sign face, exclusive of the sign’s base or decorative cap, if any.
Sign, Building Marker.
See under “building sign.” 	Sign, Canopy.
See under “building sign.” 	Sign, Changeable Copy.
A type of animated sign that is capable of changing the position or format of texts or other displays on the sign face or change the visible display of words, numbers, symbols and graphics by the use of a matrix of electric lam... 	(1) Manually Activated: A sign whose alphabetic, pictographic, or symbolic informational content can be changed or altered by placing such letters or other message elements directly on the sign face by hand.
(2) Electronic: A sign whose alphabetic, pictographic, or symbolic informational content can be changed and is displayed electrically or electronically.
See also “LED sign.”  	Sign, Channeled Letter.
Signs that have their letters cut out of the sign face or raised above the sign face, described as: 	(1) Internally Channeled Letters: Letters or other symbols cut into a sign face and located above a recessed background surface, often designed for the background surface to be illuminated by an artificial light source.
(2) Reverse-Channeled Letters: Letters or other symbols raised above a background surface designed to be illuminated from behind and within the letters or symbols by an artificial light source.
Sign Copy.
The words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors or other design elements that are used to convey the message, idea or intent for which a sign has been erected or placed.
Sign, Dilapidated/Deteriorated.
A sign that is structurally unsound, has defective parts, or is in need of painting or other maintenance.
Sign, Double-Faced.
A sign structure with two sign faces that are parallel (back-to-back) or that form an angle to one another of no more than 60 degrees, where each sign face is designed to be seen from a different direction and the two sign faces a... 	Sign Face.
Portion of the surface of a sign structure where words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements are or may be located in order to convey the message, idea, or intent for which the sign has been erected ... 	Sign, Flag.
See “flag.” 	Sign, Height.
The vertical distance from the ground to the highest point of the sign structure, as measured from the adjacent finished grade at the base of the sign.
Sign, Illuminated.
Any sign or portion thereof that is illuminated by artificial light, either from an interior or exterior source, including outline, reflective, or phosphorescent light, whether or not the source of light is directly affixed as part... 	(1) Direct or Internal Illumination.
A sign illuminated by an internal source.
(2) Indirect or External Illumination.
A sign illuminated by an external light source directed primarily toward such sign.
Sign, Incidental.
A small sign, emblem, or decal no larger than 1½ square feet in area.
Such signs are normally located on doors, windows, and gas pumps, or in parking lots or loading areas, may be freestanding or building signs, and are generally no... 	Sign, Inflatable.
A sign that is either expanded to its full dimensions through mechanical means of an air blower or supported by gasses contained within the sign, or sign parts, at a pressure greater than atmospheric pressure.
Sign, Kiosk.
See “Kiosk.” 	Sign, Marquee.
See under “Building Sign.” 	Sign, Mobile.
See “Vehicular Sign.” 	Sign Module.
Each portion or unit of a sign face that is clearly separable from other such units by virtue of its individual or independent construction or framing.
Sign, Monument.
See under “Freestanding Sign.” 	Sign, Multi-Faced.
A single freestanding sign structure consisting of two sign faces (see “Double-Faced Sign”) or three or more sign faces that are separated from each other at their nearest point by no more than 12 inches.
Sign faces or sign modules... 	Sign, Neon.
An illuminated sign containing a glass tube filled with neon or phosphors, which is bent to form letters, symbols or other shapes, or otherwise used to highlight, decorate or outline the sign.
Sign, Nonconforming.
A sign legally existing at the time of its placement or erection that could not have been approved under the terms of this Development Code.
Sign, Permanent.
Any sign that is securely affixed to the ground or to a building and not readily removable.
Temporary signs are not considered to be permanent signs.
Sign, Pole.
See under “Freestanding Sign”.
Sign, Portable.
A sign whose principal supporting structure is intended, by design and construction, to be used by resting on the ground for support and may be easily moved or relocated for reuse.
Portable signs shall include, but are not limited to,... 	Sign, Pre-Permanent.
A temporary sign used for signage by a new business until the permanent sign is installed.
Sign, Principal.
The main, most prominent or largest freestanding or building sign on a property’s street frontage or principal building, other than a project entrance sign as defined in this Article.
Such signs are of permanent construction and not ... 	Sign, Prohibited.
Any sign, other than a non-conforming sign, not conforming to this Article.
Sign, Project Entrance.
A permanent freestanding sign located at an entrance designed and permitted for vehicular access into a multi-family development, or into a development containing multiple lots, such as, but not limited to, a particular single... 	Sign, Projecting.
See under “Building Sign.” 	Sign, Roof.
See under “Building Sign.” 	Sign, Temporary.
Any sign, the use of which is short-term in nature, that is affixed to or placed on the ground or to a building but is readily removable and not intended for permanent installation.
Sign, Under Canopy.
See under “Building Sign.’ 	Sign, Wall.
See under “Building Sign.” 	Significant Recharge Areas.
Those areas mapped by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18, 1989 edition.
Single-Family Detached Dwelling.
A detached building containing one dwelling unit.
See also “Manufactured home,” “Modular home,” and “Site-Built Single-Family Detached Dwelling.” 	Site.
The parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
Site-Built Single-Family Detached Dwelling.
A single-family detached dwelling constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site, in contrast to assembly of pre-constructed and which is constructed in accordance with all requ... 	Slope.
The degree of deviation of a surface from horizontal, measured in a numerical ratio, percent or degrees.
Expressed as a ratio or percentage, the first number is the vertical distance (rise) and the second is the horizontal distance (run), as ... 	Small Cell Wireless Facility.
A wireless facility that meets both of the following qualifications: (i) all antennas shall either be enclosed in a canister with a combined maximum height of 4 feet and a maximum total volume of 15 cubic feet, and (ii) ... 	Small Wireless Facility.
Radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling; power supply; backup batteries; and comparable and associated equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a fixed locat...
Softwood Tree.
Any coniferous (cone bearing) tree.
This definition is based on the colloquialism, and does not necessarily reflect any true qualities of the tree.
Soil and Water Conservation District Approved Plan.
An erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plan approved in writing by the 15th Soil and Water Conservation District.
Special Event Facility.
An establishment where special events including, but not limited to, weddings, wedding receptions, private parties and similar events are held and which provides meals for food services in connection with such events and whic... 	Special Use.
The term applied to those uses specifically identified and approved by the City Council under the requirements set forth herein.
Specimen Tree.
Any tree which has been determined by the City’s Landscape Architect to be of high value because of its type, size, age, and/or of historical significance, or other professional criteria, and has been so designated in administrative st... 	Stabilization.
The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, wat... 	Start of Construction.
The date a permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
The actual start means the first placement of permanen... 	State.
The State of Georgia.
State General Permit.
The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for storm water runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state’s... 	State Waters.
Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of Georg... 	Stormwater.
Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, but which also includes: 	(1) Water from those sources described in this Article; and/or, 	(2) Any discharge permitted under NPDES permit or order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state and the federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirement...  	Stormwater Better Site Design.
Nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site’s impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management.
Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protec... 	Stormwater Management.
The collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enha... 	Stormwater Management Design Manual.
The most recent version of the Gwinnett County, Georgia, Stormwater Design Manual.
Stormwater Management Facility.
Any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater Management Measure.
Any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater Management Plan.
A document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this ordinance.
Stormwater Management System.
The entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater Retrofit.
A stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater Runoff.
The flow of surface water resulting from precipitation.
Story, Building.
That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor above it.
If there is no floor above it, a room, suite, or story with more than one-half of its height below grade shall not be conside...
Stream.
Any stream, beginning at: 	(1) The location where the normal stream flow has wrested the vegetation.
The normal stream flow is any flow that consists solely of base flow or consists of both base flow and direct runoff during any period of the year.
Base flow results from the gr... 	(2) A point in the stream channel with a drainage area of 20 acres or more; or, 	(3) Where evidence indicates the presence of a stream in a drainage area of other than 20 acres, the Planning and Development Department may require field studies to verify the existence of a stream.
Stream Bank.
The confining cut of a stream channel.
Stream Buffer.
See under “Buffer”.
Stream Channel.
The portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Stream Protection Area.
See “Protection Area.” 	Street.
A public thoroughfare, that affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Various types of streets may be defined as follows: 	(1) Arterial.
A Principal Arterial, Major Arterial, or Minor Arterial street as defined and designated in the Comprehensive Plan of Gwinnett County.
(2) Major Thoroughfare.
Any public street, existing or proposed, that is shown in the Comprehensive plan as an arterial or collector.
(3) Minor Collector.
A through street having the primary function of connecting subdivisions or other areas to Major Collector streets or other major thoroughfares, or functioning as a central route within a subdivision channeling traffic from the lo... 	(4) Marginal Access Street.
A local street that is parallel to and adjacent to a major thoroughfare and that provides access to adjacent properties and protection from through traffic.
(5) Local Nonresidential Street.
A surface street intended primarily to provide local access to adjacent existing or planned commercial or industrial development and not for through traffic.
(6) Local Residential Street.
A surface street intended primarily to provide local access to adjacent residential development and not for through traffic.
(7) Cul-De-Sac.
A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated within the development by a vehicular turnaround.
For the purpose of designation, a cul-de-sac street shall be interpreted to begin at the intersection of two or ... 	(8) Alley or Service Drive.
A minor, permanent, public service-way that is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or the side for properties otherwise abutting on a street.
(9) Driveway.
A vehicular access way in private ownership, other than a Private Street, that provides access primarily to only one property.
Street Line.
The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous street.
Street, Private.
Any right-of-way or area set aside to provide vehicular access within a development that is not dedicated or intended to be dedicated to the city, and that is not maintained by the city; An access way similar to and having the same ... 	Street, Public.
A right-of-way dedicated to and accepted by the City of Duluth for vehicular traffic or over which the City of Duluth may hold a prescriptive easement for public access, and including designated and numbered U. S. and State Highways.
... 	Street, Right-of-Way.
The dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and a street right-of-way.
Structural Buffer.
See under “Buffer”.
Structural Erosion, Sedimentation, and Pollution Control Practices.
Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or...
Structural Stormwater Control.
A structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the ...
Structure.
Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to something on the ground, including, but not limited to: buildings, signs, gasoline pumps, parking lots, patios, pools, decks, manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, and... 	Subdivider.
Any person, individual, firm partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as herein defined, including an a... 	Subdivision: 	(1)  (verb) Any division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel od land, regardless of its existing or future use, into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or building sites.
The term, "subdivision" shall mean the act or process of dividing property.
(2)  (noun) Where appropriate to the context, the term "subdivision" also may be used in reference to the aggregate of all lots or building sites held in common ownership at the time of division.
Substantial Damage.
Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial Improvement.
Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration, or improvements to a building, taking place during a ten-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure prior to th... 	(1) The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement; or, 	(2) In the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring.
(3) This term includes structures, which have incurred repetitive loss or substantial damage regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed.
For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first...
Substantially Improved.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision is where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before ... 	Subtenant.
A natural person, business, or other entity that subleases or is otherwise allowed to occupy a portion of land or a building, the majority of which is also occupied by a tenant.
For the purposes of this Development Code, a subtenant is not... 	Support Structure (Small Cell Wireless Facility).
A building, billboard, water tank, or any other structure to which a small wireless facility is or may be attached.
Such term shall not include a decorative pole, electric transmission structure, or p... 	Telecommunications: 	(1) Accessory Equipment.
Any equipment serving or being used in conjunction with a wireless facility or wireless support structure and includes, but is not limited to, utility or transmission equipment, power supplies, generators, batteries, cables, e... 	(2) Antenna.
Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of wireless communication services.
(3) Base Station.
A structure or equipment at a fixed location that enables FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a communications network.
The term does not encompass a tower as defined in this Glossary or any...  	(a) The term includes, but is not limited to, equipment associated with wireless communications services such as private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave back... 	(b) The term includes, but is not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration (including Distributed Antenna Systems and... 	(c) The term includes any structure other than a tower that, at the time the relevant application is filed with the City of Duluth under the Wireless Telecommunications Section of Article 3 of this UDC, supports or houses equipment described under a) ... 	(d) The term does not include any structure that, at the time the relevant application is filed with the City of Duluth under the Wireless Telecommunications Section of Article 3 of this UDC, does not support or house equipment described under a) and ... 	(1) Collocate or Collocation.
The placement or installation of new wireless facilities on previously approved and constructed wireless support structures, including monopoles and towers, both self-supporting and guyed, in a manner that negates the nee... 	(2) Eligible Support Structure.
Any “base station” as defined in this Glossary; or, any tower built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting any FCC-licensed or authorized antennas and their associated facilities, including structures that are co... 	(3) Equipment Compound.
An area surrounding or adjacent to the base of a wireless support structure within which accessory equipment is located.
(4) Modification or Modify.
The improvement, upgrade, expansion, or replacement of existing wireless facilities on an existing wireless support structure or within an existing equipment compound, provided such improvement, upgrade, expansion, or repla... 	(5) Registry.
Any official list, record, or register maintained by local governing authority of wireless facilities, equipment compounds, or wireless support structures.
(6) Substantially Change.
A modification that substantially changes the physical dimensions of an “eligible support structure” as defined in this Glossary if it meets any of the following criteria:  	(a) For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it increases the height of the tower by more than 10 percent or by the height of one additional antenna array with separation from the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet, whiche... 	(b) for towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it involves adding an appurtenance to the body of the tower that would protrude from the edge of the tower more than 20 feet, or more than the width of the tower structure at the level of t... 	(c) for any eligible support structure, it involves installation of more than the standard number of new equipment cabinets for the technology involved, but not to exceed four cabinets; or, for towers in the public rights-of-way and base stations, it ... 	(d) it entails any excavation or deployment outside the current site; 	(e) it would defeat the concealment elements of the eligible support structure; or 	(f) it does not comply with conditions associated with the siting approval of the construction or modification of the eligible support structure or base station equipment, provided however that this limitation does not apply to any modification that i... 	(1) Utility.
Any person, corporation, municipality, county, or other entity, or department thereof or entity related or subordinate thereto, providing retail or wholesale electric, data, cable, or telecommunications services.
(2) Wireless Facility.
The set of equipment and network components, exclusive of the underlying wireless support structure, including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and accessory equipment, used to provide w... 	(3) Wireless Support Structure.
A freestanding structure, such as a monopole, tower, either guyed or self-supporting, or suitable existing or alternative structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless facilities.
Such term shall not i...
Temporary Event.
An activity having a specific duration or the end of which is related to a specific action, usually lasting for only a few days or months at a time.
Tenant.
A natural person, business, or other entity that occupies land or buildings by ownership, under a lease, through payment of rent, or at will; the primary occupant, inhabitant, or dweller of a place.
See also “subtenant”.
Tenant Frontage.
The horizontal distance in feet between the walls that delimit an exterior façade of a tenant space.
A “tenant space” may be a standalone building with a single occupant, or a portion of a planned center that is separated from all ot...
Timber Harvesting.
The felling, loading, and transporting of timber products (pulpwood etc.).
The term “timber harvesting” may include both clearcutting and selective cutting of timber.
Trail, Multi-use.
A hard surface (concrete, asphalt, boardwalk, etc.)
transportation structure specifically constructed for alternative transportation such as walking, biking, roller blading, etc., and not intended to transport motorized vehicles suc... 	Tree.
Any living, self-supporting woody or fibrous plant that normally obtains a Diameter Breast Height of at least 3 inches, and typically has one main stem or trunk and many branches.
Tree Removal or Removal of Trees.
Any act that causes a tree to die within two years after commission of the act, including, but not limited to, damage inflicted upon the root system or trunk as the result of: 	(1) The improper use of machinery on the trees; 	(2) The storage or materials in or around the trees; 	(3) Soil compaction; 	(4) Altering the natural grade to expose the roots or to cover the tree’s root system with more than 4 inches of soil; 	(5) Causing the infection or infestation of the tree by pests, fungus, or harmful bacteria; 	(6) Pruning judged to be excessive by the Director or not in accordance with the standard set forth by the International Society of Arboriculture (ISA); 	(7) Paving with concrete, asphalt, or other impervious surface within such proximity as to be harmful to the tree or its root system; or, 	(8) Application of herbicides or defoliants to any tree without first obtaining a permit.
Tree Density Standard (TDS).
The minimum number of Tree Density Units per acre that must be achieved on a property after development.
Tree Density Unit (TDU).
A credit assigned to a tree, based on the diameter of the tree, in accordance with tables contained in this Ordinance.
Tree Diameter.
The widest cross-sectional dimension of a tree trunk measured at diameter breast height (DBH) or at a point below DBH for new trees or multi-trunked species, but in no case less than 6 inches from the ground.
Tree Preservation/Replacement Plan (TP/RP).
A plan that identifies Tree Protection Areas on a property where existing trees are to be preserved and where proposed replacement trees are to be planted to meet minimum requirements, as well as methods of... 	Tree Protection Area (TPA).
Any portion of a site wherein are located existing trees that are proposed to be preserved in order to comply with the requirements of this Ordinance.
The Tree Protection Area shall include no less than the total area bene... 	Tree Save Area.
An area designated for the purpose of meeting tree density requirements, saving natural trees, and/or preserving natural buffers.
Tree-Thinning.
Selective cutting or thinning of trees only for the clear purpose of good forestry management in order to protect said forest from disease or infestation and in no way shall be constructed as clear-cutting.
Triplex.
A multi-family dwelling containing three dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than three families living independently of each other.
Trout Streams.
All streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Wildlife Resources Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A.
12-5-20, in... 	Two-Family Dwelling (Duplex).
A building containing two single-family dwelling units totally separated from each other by an unpierced wall extending from basement to roof.
Understory.
Those trees that grow beneath the overstory, and will generally reach a mature height of less than 40 feet.
Use: 	(1) Any purpose for which, a building, structure, or a tract of land may be designed, arranged,  intended,  maintained,  or  occupied;  or, 	(2) Any activity, occupation, business,  or operation carried on, or intended to be carried on, in a building or other structure or on a tract of land.
Use, Nonresidential.
A principal use that is a business engaged in the sale of goods or the provision of personal, professional, business, entertainment, or other services; an institutional or nonprofit organization; a business engaged in the fabrica... 	Use, Residential.
A principal use that is intended for occupancy by an owner or lessee as their permanent abode.
Utility.
A public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, storm water systems, and railroads or other u... 	Utility Pole.
A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part for the purpose of carrying electric distribution lines or cables or wires for telecommunications, cable or electric service, or for lighting, traffic control, signage, or a s... 	Vegetative Erosion and Sedimentation Control Measures.
Measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with: 	(1) Permanent seeding, sprigging, or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover, or, 	(2) Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or, 	(3) Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Vehicular Sign.
Any sign placed, mounted, painted on, or affixed to a motor vehicle or to a freight, flat-bed or storage trailer or other conveyance, whether motorized or drawn.
Wall Sign.
See under “Building Sign.” 	Watercourse.
Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, be... 	Watershed Buffer.
See under “Buffer”.
Water Supply Watershed.
The area of land upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water intake.
Watershed.
The land area that drains into a particular stream.
Way.
A street or alley or other thoroughfare or easement permanently established for passage of persons or vehicles.
Way, Pedestrian.
A right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, intended primarily for pedestrians and from which motor vehicles are excluded.
Wetlands.
Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil...
Window Sign.
See under “Building Sign.” 	Wireless Facility.
Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:  (i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio transceivers, antennas, coaxi... 	Wireless Infrastructure Provider.
Any person, including a person authorized to provide telecommunications services in this state, that builds, installs, or operates small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures on which sm... 	Wireless Provider.
A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services provider.
Wireless Services.
Any services provided to the public using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile.
Wireless Services Provider.
A person that provides wireless services.
Wireline Backhaul Facility.
An aboveground or underground wireline facility used to transport communications data from a telecommunications demarcation box associated with small wireless facility to a network.
Yard (with principal building).
An area that lies between the principal building on a lot and the nearest lot line.
(1) Front Yard.
A yard extending across the full width of the lot, measured between the front lot line and the front line of the main building.
Corner lots shall be considered to have two front yards or one exterior side and one front yard.
(2) Rear Yard.
A yard extending across the full width of the lot, measured between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building.
(3) Exterior Side Yard.
A yard between the building and attached structures, and the adjacent street right-of-way line along the lot extending from front yard to rear yard.
(4) Interior Side Yard.
A yard between the building and attached structures, and adjacent sideline of the lot adjoining another lot, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
Yard (no principal building).
An area beginning from the nearest lot line or street right-of-way line, as described below, to the interior of a lot.
(1) Front Yard.
A yard extending across the full width of the lot, measured at a point beginning from the adjacent street right-of-way line.
Corner lots shall be considered to have two front yards or one side and one front yard.
(2) Rear Yard.
A yard extending across the full width of the lot, measured at a point beginning from the rear line of the lot.
The rear line shall be opposite the street right-of-way line used to designate the front yard.
(3) Side Yard.
A yard that is not a front yard or rear yard.
(4) Interior Side Yard.
A yard between the building and attached structures, and adjacent sideline of the lot adjoining another lot, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
Zero Lot Line.
The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one or more of the building’s sides rest directly on a lot line, such as patio homes or fee simple townhouse condominiums.
Zoning Buffer.
See under “Buffer”.
         CITY OF LEEDS  ZONING   ORDINANCE  #2015-06-06   ADOPTED JUNE 15, 2015                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS     ARTICLE                      PAGE  I  SHORT TITLE                    1  II  PURPOSE                    2    §    1.00 Generally                2        III  ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES    §    1.00 Enforcing Officer              3        2.00 Zoning Approval/ Building Permit Required       3        2.01 Plot Plan                3        2.02 Site Plan Review              4        2.03 Zoning Approval Application          5        2.04 Denial of Building Permit            5        2.05 Zoning Certificate of Occupancy          5        2.06 Expiration of Building Permit/Zoning Approval      5        2.07 Unlawful Structure             5        2.08 Penalties                6        2.09 Remedies                6        2.10 Interpretation of District Boundaries        6        2.11 Interpretation of Uses            6        2.12 Unclassified Uses              7      §    3.00 Planning Commission            7        3.01 Appointment              7      §    4.00 Zoning Board of Adjustment          7        4.01 Appointment              7      §    5.00 Variances                7        5.01 Justification              8        5.02 Application for a Variance            8        5.03 Public Notice Required            9        5.04 Action on Appeals              9        5.05 Appeals, How taken            9        5.06 Stay of Proceedings            10        5.07 Appeals from the action of the Board        10             §    6.00 Special Exception Uses            10  6.01 Special Exception Procedures          11  6.02 Public Notice              11     §    7.00 Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance or the             Zoning Map              11  7.01 Authority to Amend            12  7.02 Authorized Petitioners            12  7.03 Petition for Amendment            12          7.04 Public Notice              12      ARTICLE                          III  ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES     §    8.00 City Council Action on Amendments        12  8.01 Notification and Adoption Requirements        12     §    9.00 Limitations on Rezoning Requests          13     IV  DEFINITIONS                    14     §    1.00 Purpose of Definitions            14   1.01 Interpretation              14  1.02 Word Usage              14        §    2.00 Words and Phrases Defined          14     V  GENERAL REGULATIONS                40     §    1.00 General Use Regulations            40  §    2.00 Application of this Ordinance          40  §    3.00 Except as Otherwise Provided for in this   Ordinance              40  §    4.00 Joint Occupancy              40  §    5.00 Public Utilities              40  §    6.00 Non‐Conforming Uses            41  §    6.01 Non‐Conforming Lots of Record          41  §    7.00 Continuance              41  §    8.00 Restoration to Safe Condition          41  §    9.00 Restoration after Damages             §    10.00 Abandonment or Discontinued Use        42  §    11.00 Annexed Property            42  §    12.00 Change in Use              42  §    13.00 Abandoned Right‐Of‐Way           42  §    14.00 Reduction in Lot Area Prohibited          42  §    15.00 Structures Conforming to district Regulations               But no other Regulations           42  §    16.00 Buildings to be Moved            42  §    17.00 General Requirements            42  §    17.01 Buffer Requirements            43  §    17.02 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)       43  §    17.03 Public Buildings              43       VI   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS                44                    §    1.00 A‐1 Agriculture District            45         1.01 Intent                45        1.02 Uses Permitted              45        1.03 Special Exception Uses            46        1.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations          46        1.05 Public Buildings              47   1.06 Buffer Requirements            47  1.07 Additional Regulations (When Applicable        47             §    2.00 E‐1 Single Family Residential Estate District       49         2.01 Intent                49        2.02 Uses Permitted              49        2.03 Special Exception Uses            49   2.04 Area and Dimensional Requirements        50  2.05 Public Buildings              50         2.06 Buffer Requirements            50        2.07 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        51             §    3.00 E‐2 Single Family Residential Estate District       52        3.01 Intent                52        3.02 Uses Permitted              52        3.03 Special Exception Uses            52          3.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations          53        3.05 Public Buildings              53        3.06 Buffer Requirements            53        3.07 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        54            §    4.01 R‐1 Single Family Residential District        55        4.02 Uses Permitted              55        4.03 Special Exception Uses            55        4.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations          56        4.05 Buffer Requirements            56        4.06 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        56      §    5.00 R‐2 Single Family Residential District        57        5.01 Intent                57        5.02 Uses Permitted              57        5.03 Special Exception Uses            57        5.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations          58        5.05 Public Buildings              58        5.06 Buffer Requirements            58        5.07 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        58                            §    6.00 R‐3 Multi‐Family Residential District        60        6.01 Intent                60        6.02 Uses Permitted              60                6.03 Special Exception Uses            60        6.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations          61        6.05 Buffer Requirements            61        6.06 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        61      §    7.00 R‐3‐T Townhouse Residential District        62        7.01 Intent                62        7.02 Uses Permitted              62        7.03 Area and dimensional regulations          62        7.04 Buffer Requirements            62        7.05 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        62      §    8.00 R‐5 Garden Home Residential District        63        8.01 Intent                63        8.02 Uses Permitted              63        8.03 Special Exception Uses            63        8.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations          63        8.05 Buffer Requirements            64        8.06 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        64      §    9.00 R‐6 Patio Home Residential District         65        9.01 Intent                65        9.02 Uses Permitted              65        9.03 Special exception Uses            65        9.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations          65        9.05 Buffer Requirements            66        9.06 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        66      §    10.00 RMHP Residential Manufactured (Mobile Home Park District)  68        10.01 Intent                68        10.02 Uses Permitted              68        10.03 Site Standards              68        10.04 Installation              69        10.05 Storage Facilities, Accessory Uses and Structures      69        10.06 Off‐Street Parking and Loading          69        10.07 Service Facilities              70        10.08 Buffer Requirements            70        10.09 Signs                70        10.10 Landscaping              70        10.11 Patios                70        10.12 Fences                70      §    11.00 RMHS Residential Manufactured (Mobile) Home                    Subdivision District            71        11.01 Intent                71        11.02 Uses Permitted              71        11.03 Area and Dimensional Regulations        72        11.04 Manufactured (Mobile) Home Standards        72                11.05 Procedure for Plat Approval          72        11.06 Additional Regulations            72        11.07 Buffer Requirements            72      §    12.00 O‐1 Office Building District          73        12.01 Intent                73        12.02 Uses Permitted              73        12.03 Special exception Uses            74        12.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations        74        12.05 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)       74        12.06 Public Buildings              75        12.07 Buffer Requirements            75        12.08 Additional Regulations (When Applicable0       75      §    13.00 B‐2 General Business District          76        13.01 Intent                76        13.02 Uses Permitted              76        13.03 Special Exception Uses            76        13.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations        77        13.05 Buffer Requirements            78        13.06 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)       78      §    14.00 B‐3 Tourist Commercial District          79        14.01 Intent                79        14.02 Uses Permitted              79        14.03 Special Exception Uses            80        14.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations        80        14.05 Buffer Requirements            80        14.06 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)       80      §    15.00 I‐1 Light Industrial District         82        15.01 Intent                82        15.02 Uses Permitted              83        15.03 Special Exception Uses            83        15.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations        83        15.05 Buffer Requirements            84        15.06 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)       84      §    16.00 I‐2 Heavy Industrial District          85        16.01 Intent                85        16.02 Uses Permitted              85        16.03 Special Exception Uses            85        16.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations        85        16.05 Buffer Requirements            85        16.06 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)       85      §    17.00 MR Municipal Reserve District          87        17.01 Intent                87                17.02 Zoning of Annexed Areas            87        17.03 Rezoning From the MR District          87        17.04 Permitted Uses and Development Standards      87        17.05 Action on Annexation Petitions          87        17.06 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)       87       §    18.00 Planned Community Development        88      18.01 Intent                88      18.02 Procedure; Application Requirements        88      18.03 Development Standards            91      18.04 Planned Detached and Attached Dwelling District      92      18.05 Planned Multiple Dwelling District         92      18.06 Planned Commercial District           93      18.07 Planned Industrial District           94      18.08 Amendments              95      18.09 Zoning Amendments            96      18.10 Building Permits              96      18.11 Commitments, Conditions, or Surety        97      18.12 Definitions              97         VII   SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS                     §    1.00 Area Modification for Lots of Record        98    §    2.00 General Yard Requirements          98        2.01 Front Yard Requirements            98        2.02 Rear Yard Requirements            99    §    3.00 Height Modifications            99    §    4.00 Fences and Walls              99    §    5.00 Porches, Terraces, Balconies, Cornices          And Eaves              100    §    6.00 Accessory Structures and Buildings         100    §    7.00 Temporary Structures and Building Material Storage    101    §    8.00 Garage or Yard Sale            101    §    9.00 Farms                101    §    10.00 Private Swimming Pools            102    §    11.00 Buffers                103        11.01 General Requirements            103        11.02 Modification or Waiver            104    VIII  SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES      §    1.00 Generally                105    §    1.01 Special Exception Procedures          105    §    1.02 Public Notice Required            105    §    2.00 Hobby Farms              106    §    3.00 Shopping Centers              106    §    4.00 Restaurants, Fast Food            107    §    5.00 Hospitals                107            §    6.00 Nursing Care Facilities            108    §    7.00 Cemeteries              108    §    8.00 Home Occupations             108    §    9.00 Self‐Storage              109    §    10.00 Private Tennis Courts            110    §    11.00 Industrial Parks              110    §    12.00 Transmission Towers (Commercial)        112        12.01 Applicability              112        12.02 Objectives              112        12.03 Development Criteria            113        12.04 Application              115    §    13.00 Bed and Breakfast Establishments         116    §    14.00 Tree Cutting (Commercial)          116    §    15.00 Special Event              117    §    16.00 Urban Barnyard Facility            117    IX  OFF‐STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS          118      §    1.00 Purpose of Off‐Street Parking and Loading Requirements    118        1.01 Required Off‐Street Parking Spaces         118        1.02 Off‐Street Parking Design Requirements        121        1.03 Location of Required Parking          122        1.04 Parking Prohibitions            123        1.05 Access Controls              123        1.06 Required Off‐Street Loading Spaces        124        1.07 Off‐Street Loading Design Standards        124        1.08 Change in Parking and Loading Requirements      125           X  SIGN REGULATIONS                  126      §    1.00 Purpose and Intent             126    §    2.00 Prohibited Signs              126    §    3.00 Portable Signs              127    §    4.00 General Regulations Applying To All Signs        127    §    5.00 Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions          128    §    6.00 Outdoor Advertising            129    §    8.00 Signs Located in Residential Districts        130    §    9.00 Signs Permitted in the B‐2 General Business District     131    §    10.00 Signs Located in Shopping Centers and Office Parks    132    §    11.00 Signs Permitted in the 1‐1 and 1‐2 Light and Heavy           Industrial Districts            132    §    12.00 Signs Permitted in the A‐1 Agriculture District      133    §    13.00 Construction and Maintenance of Signs        133    §    14.00 Required Permits, Fees and Inspections        134    §    15.00 Issuance Denial              134    §    16.00 Appeals of Permit Denial            135    §    17.00 Permit Fees              135    §    18.00 Inspection of Signs            135            §    19.00 Unlawful Signs              135    §    20.00 Confiscation of Signs located on Public Right‐of‐way    135    §    21.00 Abandoned Signs              135    §    22.00 Misleading Signs              136    §    23.00 Notification              136    §    24.00 Removal of Sign              136    §    25.00 Annual Inspection            136    §    26.00 Right of Entry              137    XII  LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS                138      §    1.00 Interpretation of Uses            138    §    2.00 Savings Clause              138    §    3.00 Repeal of Existing Ordinances          138    §    4.00 Effective Date              138      APPENDICES    ADMINISTRATIVE FORMS AND APPLICATIONS                      Article I – Short Title     Zoning Ordinance       Page 1 of 139  ORDINANCE NO.
DRAFT       AN ORDINANCE, IN PURSUANCE OF THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY VOLUME 10, TITLE 11,  CHAPTER 52, CODE OF ALABAMA, 1975, AS AMENDED AND SUPPLANTED BY THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF  THE CITY OF LEEDS, ALABAMA: TO REGULATE WITHIN SUCH DISTRICTS THE: HEIGHT; NUMBER OF  STORIES; SIZE OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES; THE PERCENTAGE OF LOT THAT MAY BE  OCCUPIED; THE SIZE OF YARDS AND OTHER OPEN SPACES; THE DENSITY OF POPULATION; AND THE USE  OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND LAND: TO REPEAL ALL EXISTING ZONING ORDINANCES AND PENALTIES  FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF.
THE GENERAL PUBLIC WELFARE REQUIRING IT, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of  Leeds, Alabama, as follows:     ARTICLE I     SHORT TITLE       This Ordinance shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Leeds, Alabama and the  map herein referred to shall be identified by the title Zoning Map of the City of Leeds, Alabama.
It shall  further be identified by the signature of the Mayor of the City of Leeds and attested to by the City Clerk.
The Zoning Map of the City of Leeds, Alabama, is hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance.
This  map is filed with the City Clerk of Leeds at the time the introduction of this Ordinance and will remain on  file in the office of said clerk.
Upon the adoption of this Ordinance, the said map shall show, by  endorsement thereon, the date of such adoption.
Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 2 of 139  ARTICLE II     PURPOSE AND INTENT    § 1.00    Generally      The zoning regulations and districts as herein established have been in accordance with a  comprehensive plan and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic  and other dangers; to promote the health and welfare of citizens; to provide for light and air; to prevent  the overcrowding of land; to regulate signs; to avoid undue concentrations of population; to facilitate the  adequate provision of transportation; water, sewers, schools, parks, public buildings, and other public  improvements.
These regulations have also been formulated with reasonable consideration, among  other things, to the character of the districts and their peculiar suitability for particular uses and with an  emphasis on conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land  throughout the City.
It is the specific intent of this ordinance to provide for a reasonable approach to zoning matters  and enforcement should always be undertaken with a view as to problem resolution in the least punitive  manner consistent with what is in the best interest of the City of Leeds and it citizenry.
Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 3 of 139  ARTICLE III     ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES     § 1.00  Enforcing Officer     The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the Building Inspector of  the City.
He or she may be provided with the assistance of such other person or persons, as the  City Council deems appropriate.
The Building Inspector, or the duly authorized representative,  shall in relation to this Ordinance:     A.
Review all building permit applications with regard to conformance with all applicable   provisions of this Ordinance and perform required inspections to insure such conformance,  B.
Issue all building permits and maintain records thereof.
C. Issue all Certificates of Occupancy and maintain records thereof.
D. Issue and renew, where applicable, all temporary use permits and maintain records thereof,  E. Maintain current zoning maps and records of amendments thereto; and,  F. Have the right to enter into any premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of making   inspections of land, structures and buildings necessary to carry out the enforcement of this  Ordinance.
If the Building Inspector finds that any of the provisions of this Ordinance are  being violated, he or she shall proceed to notify, in writing, the person or persons responsible  for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation(s) and ordering the appropriate  action necessary to rectify it.
He or she shall order the discontinuance of the illegal use of  land, buildings or structures; removal of all the illegal buildings or structures or any illegal  work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this Ordinance to insure  compliance with, or to prevent violation of its provisions.
§ 2.00  Zoning Approval Required     It shall be unlawful; to commence earthwork or the construction of any building or other  structure, including accessory structures, or signs, to store building materials or erect temporary  field offices; or to commence the moving, alteration, or repair of any structure, including  accessory structures, until the Building Inspector of the City has issued a zoning approval for such  work, including a statement that the plans, specifications and intended uses of such building or  structure conforms with the provisions of this Ordinance in all respects.
The application for a  zoning approval shall be filed with the Building Inspector on forms provided by the City for that  purpose.
A zoning approval fee shall be collected for all zoning approvals for which a building  permit is not required as per the City of Leeds Fee Schedule.
§ 2.01  Plot Plan     A.
It shall be unlawful for the Building Inspector to approve any plans or issue zoning   approval/building permits for any excavation or construction until he or she has inspected such  plans in detail and found them in conformity with this Ordinance.
To this end, the Building  Inspector shall require that every application for a zoning approval be accompanied by a plot plan  drawn to scale, dimensioned, and showing the following in sufficient detail to enable the Building  Inspector to ascertain whether or not the proposed development is in conformance with the  provisions of this Ordinance:     Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 4 of 139    1.
The actual shape, proportion and dimensions of the lot to be built upon,  2.
The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures to be erected, altered or   moved and of any building (s) or other structures already on the lot, both above and below  existing grade.
3.
The existing and intended use of all buildings or other structures,  4.
The setback and side lines of buildings on adjoining lots and such other information   concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for determining conformance with  the provisions of this Ordinance; and,   5.
Every applicant for the use of land, under and by virtue of the provisions of this Ordinance,  shall include therein a plan showing the location of necessary fire hydrants with adequate  water flow.
In addition thereto, the applicant shall submit to the City a written agreement  between the applicant and the appropriate water authority specifying that the applicant shall  assume the responsibility of purchasing and arranging the installation of such fire hydrants as  required by the Leeds Fire Department.
The applicant shall also agree to pay the annual  rental thereof and other charges that may be levied by the water authority for a period of  two (2) years from the date of their installation.
Such agreement shall be submitted to the  Building Inspector for his or her review and the Leeds Fire Department’s review and approval  and shall be in full force and effect at the time of the issuance of any building permit  provided for hereunder.
In addition, where applicable, the applicant shall provide the  Building Inspector with copies of all deed restrictions and/or covenants, which pertain to the  subject property.
2.02         Site Plan Review     A.
New construction and substantial site development expansion of all planned Residential   Developments, Townhomes, Garden Homes, Planned Residential Developments, Planned  Unit Developments, five (5) or more Multifamily Dwellings, Manufactured (Mobile) Home  Parks, Manufactured (Mobile) Home Subdivisions, Institutional Uses, Commercial Uses and  Industrial Uses shall require the submission and approval of a site plan prepared by a  professional engineer or professional Land Surveyor who is licensed in the State of Alabama.
B.
Cover Sheet With:  1.
Name and address of the development; name, address and signature of the owner; name   address, and signature of the engineer,  2.
The vicinity map,  3.
Zoning and existing and proposed land use of the site,  4.
Date, scale, north arrow and name of all streets,     C. Site layout, including property dimensions, rights‐of‐way, easements, location and   dimensions of all buildings (existing and proposed), set‐backs, driveway access, off‐street  parking and loading, circulation, screening, buffer yards and landscaping.
D. Drainage, paving, grading and excavation, topography, erosion and sedimentation, storm‐ water detention and floodplain management controls.
E. Public and private utilities, including sewage disposal system and water system.
F. Fire lanes and hydrants.
[See Section 2.01, A‐5]     Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 5 of 139  2.03  Zoning Approval Application     If, after the review, it is found that the proposed construction, excavation, moving and/or other  alteration (as set forth in the application) is in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance,  the Building Inspector of the City shall issue a Zoning Approval accordingly.
2.04  Denial of Zoning Approval     The applicant, upon notification by the Building Inspector of a Zoning Approval denial, may make  application to the Chairman of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and request a hearing before that  body.
2.05  Zoning Certificate of Occupancy        No activity or use regulated by this ordinance, including but not limited to land or building(s) or  other structure(s) or parts thereof erected, moved or altered in its use shall be used or occupied  until the Building Inspector of the City shall have issued a Certificate of Occupancy.
Within seven  (7) business days after the owner (or his agent) has notified the Building Inspector of the City that  a building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the  Building Inspector of the City to make a final inspection thereof and issue a Zoning Certificate of  Occupancy, if the building or premises or part thereof is found to conform with the provisions of  this Ordinance; or if such Certificate is refused, to notify the owner, in writing, stating the cause  for such refusal.
Appeals from the decision of the Building Inspector shall be heard by the Zoning  Board of Adjustment.
2.06  Expiration of Zoning Approval     Any permit, under which no construction work has been performed within six (6) months or  which has not been completed within one (1) year from the original date of issuance, shall expire  by limitation, but shall, upon reapplication, be renewable.
This is subject however, to the  provisions of all Ordinances in force at the time of said application for renewal.
2.07   Unlawful Structure     A.
Any uses of land, or dwellings or construction or alteration of buildings or structures erected,   altered, razed or converted in violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby  declared to be a nuisance per se.
The Building Inspector is lawfully authorized to apply to a  court of equity to abate the nuisance created by such unlawful use of a building, structure or  land.
Whenever the Building Inspector has declared a structure to be in violation of any  applicable provisions of this Ordinance, the owner or occupant shall, within seventy‐two (72)  hours from receipt of notification, from the Building Inspector to vacate such premises,  accomplish such vacation of said structure or premises which shall not again be used or  occupied until such structure or premises has been adapted to conform to all provisions of  this Ordinance.
Service of notification shall be as follows:    1.
By delivery to the owner personally or by leaving the notice at the usual place of abode   of the owner with a person of suitable age and discretion; or,     Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 6 of 139  2.
By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed to the owner at his or  her last known address with postage prepaid thereon; or,   3.
By posting and keeping posted twenty‐four (24) hours, a copy of the notice in a  conspicuous place on the premises to be repaired.
2.08  Penalties     Any person, firm, corporation or other organization which violates any provisions of this  Ordinance shall be fined, upon conviction, a fee as described in the City of Leeds Fee Schedule.
Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
The conviction of a  violation and imposition of any fine shall not constitute an exemption from compliance with all  applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
2.09  Remedies     In case any building or other structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired,  converted or maintained or, if any building, structure or land is used in violation of this  Ordinance, the Building Inspector of the City or any other appropriate authority or any adjacent  or neighboring property owner within five hundred (500) feet who would be damaged or caused  hardship by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may:     1.
Institute an injunction,  2.
Institute a mandamus,  3.
Take other appropriate action or proceedings to stay or prevent occupancy of such   buildings, structure or land.
2.10  Interpretation of District Boundaries     A.
The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall make an interpretation of the “Leeds Zoning Map”  upon request of any person.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any zone  district shown on said map, the following rules shall apply:    1.
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following street and alley lines or land   lot lines, such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
2.
In un‐subdivided property or tracts where a district boundary divides a lot, the location of   such boundary, unless the same is indicated by dimensions, shall be determined by the  use of the scale appearing on such maps.
3.
Where boundaries are approximately parallel to public right‐of‐way lines, such  boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto.
2.11   Interpretation of Uses     This Ordinance recognizes the limitations of the district use listings given the infinite variations of  essentially similar uses.
Therefore, the Building Inspector is empowered to make interpretations  so as to classify any questioned use within a listed use of most similar impact and characteristics.
However, in no case shall the Building Inspector interpret a use as falling in one listed use when  the use in question is more similar in impact and characteristics to another listed use.
Any     Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 7 of 139  appeals related to the Building Inspector’s use interpretation might be filed with the Zoning  Board of Adjustment.
2.12  Unclassified Uses     A.
In the event the Building Inspector finds a new or unusual use that cannot appropriately fit a   listed use in any district, the following procedures shall be used to determine the most  proper district:    1.
If compatible with the existing zoning district intent, the unclassified use shall be   permitted by Special Exception upon the approval and subject to the conditions set forth  by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
2.
If the unclassified use is deemed to be incompatible with the intent of the existing zone  district by the Building Inspector, he shall then consult with the Planning Commission in  order to: 1) draft an appropriate zone district(s) for the use.
3.
Following the steps contained in number “A” above, the Planning Commission shall hold  a public hearing to initiate an amendment to the Ordinance to include a specific  definition for the unclassified use and a listing of zone(s) the use would be permitted in,  including any specific conditions or criteria required.
4.
Following the public hearing by the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission shall  submit its recommendation(s) to the City Council for final action.
(All public hearing  notification and publication requirements required by law shall be met with respect to  the public hearings held by both the Planning Commission and the City Council).
5.
Following final action by the City Council, said amendments shall be incorporated into  the Zoning Ordinance.
§ 3.00  Planning Commission     3.01 Appointment    Any proposal for a zoning ordinance or for an amendment to the existing zoning  ordinance must begin with the planning commission.
Such commission shall be  created and shall function as provided by the Code of Alabama, 1975, § 11‐522  through 11‐52‐1001 as such may be amended; and, it shall have the powers granted  herein.
§ 4.00    Zoning Board of Adjustment     4.01 Appointment     A Zoning Board of Adjustment is hereby established.
Such board shall be appointed  as provided by the Code of Alabama, 1975, § 11‐52‐80 or as such may be amended;  and, it shall have all the powers granted herein.
§ 5.00  Variances     The Zoning Board of Adjustment has the authority to authorize, upon appeal, in specific cases,  such variances from the terms of this Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest,     Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 8 of 139  where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance  would result in unnecessary hardship.
[An unnecessary hardship refers to a hardship, which is  NOT self‐created.]
5.01 Justification     A. Variances to the terms of this Chapter may be granted in individual cases upon a   finding by the Zoning Board of Adjustment that the variance will not be contrary to  the public interest and where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of  the provisions of this ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship.
Another  essential factor is that the spirit of the Ordinance shall be observed and substantial  justice done.
More specifically, the Board shall determine that ALL of the following  criteria have been satisfied:     1.
Variances should be permitted only under peculiar and exceptional   circumstances.
2.
A hardship alone is not sufficient.
Alabama statutes require the verification of   unnecessary hardship (not self‐created and not involving the design or other  limitations of the land itself).
3.
Mere financial loss of any kind, which might be common to all of the property  owners in a district, is NOT an unnecessary hardship.
4.
When a hardship is self‐inflicted or self‐created, there is no basis for claim that  a variance should be granted.
5.
Variances should be granted sparingly and the spirit of this Chapter, in harmony  with the spirit of State Law, should be carefully preserved to the end and the  structure of this section would not disintegrate and fall apart by constant  erosion at the hands of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
5.02 Application For A Variance     A.
An application for a variance shall be filed with the Chairman of the Zoning Board   of Adjustment at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled hearing date  before the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
The application shall be filed by the  property owner or the authorized agent of the property owner on a form made  available by the Building Inspector and shall include the following:     1.
Name, signature and address of the property owner and agent of   the property owner, if any.
2.
Address of the property under consideration.
3.
Existing zoning and present land use of the property under   consideration.
4.
Justification for a variance in accordance with ALL of the criteria   cited in Section 4.0, Subsection 4.3.
5.
A vicinity map showing the exact location of the property.
6.
A plot plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property   boundaries and proposed development layout with the variance  noted or highlighted.
Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 9 of 139  7.
The names and addresses of adjacent property owners, as well as  those property owners within five hundred (500) feet of the subject  property as shown on the most recent records of the county’s Tax  Assessors Office.
8.
A fee, as indicated in the city fee schedule, is required from the  applicant or agent at the time the application for a variance is  made.
5.03 Notice Required       A.
At least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled Zoning Board of   Adjustment hearing, the City Inspection Services Department shall  cause to be posted a two sided, portable 18” X 24” (minimum) sign  on or near the property in question.
Such sign shall contain the  following information:  1.
City of Leeds;  2.
Board of Zoning Adjustments;  3.
Case Number; and  4.
Please call (Insert City Number) for more information     B.
In addition, Notice must be transmitted by the applicant to adjoining   property owners, according to records of the County Tax Assessor, by  certified mail, return receipt.
The applicant must provide to the City  at least 10 days prior to the meeting date, a copy of the certified mail  receipt.
5.04 Action on Appeals    In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Zoning Board of  Adjustment may, as long as such action is in conformity with the  terms of his Ordinance, reverse, affirm (wholly or partly) or  modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as to  what should be made; and, to that end, it shall have powers of  the administrative official from whom the appeal is taken.
The  concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary  to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of  the Building Inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant on  any matter upon which it is required to pass under this  Ordinance, or to affect any variation in the application of this  Ordinance.
[Code of Alabama, 1975, § 11‐52‐80 or as such may  be amended]     5.05 Appeals – How Taken     A.
Appeals to the Zoning Board of Adjustment may be taken by any   person aggrieved of by any officer, department, board or bureau of  the City affected by any decision of the administrative official.
Such  appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time, not to exceed thirty     Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 10 of 139  (30) days or such lesser period as may be provided by the rules of the  Board, by filing with the Building Inspector and with the Zoning  Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds  thereof.
The administrative official shall forthwith transmit to the  Board all papers, documents, etc.
that constitute the appeal.
B.
The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for  hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice  to the parties with the interest, and decide the same within a  reasonable time.
At the hearing, any party may appear in person or  by agent or attorney.
5.06 Stay of Proceedings     An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed,  unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Zoning Board of Adjustment,  after the notice of appeal is filed by him or her, that by reason of facts  stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause  imminent peril to life and property.
In such a case, the proceedings shall  not be stayed, other than by a restraining order, which may be granted  by the Zoning Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application,  on notice to the Building Inspector from whom the appeal is taken and  on due cause shown.
5.07 Appeals From The Action Of The Board     Any party aggrieved by any final judgment of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment may appeal therefrom to the Circuit Court or court of like  jurisdiction as provided by the Code of Alabama, 1975, § 11‐52‐80 or as  the same may be amended, within fifteen (15) days from the date of the  board hearing.
§ 6.00  Special Exception Uses     In certain cases, certain land uses are identified for special zoning treatment.
The nature of these  uses is such that, when properly regulated, they are appropriate in several zone districts.
In  order to bring about the proper integration of uses into the City’s land use pattern, a special set  of criteria or standards may be provided for each use listed in the Special Exception Use category.
Review of these standards will tend to maintain compatibility with adjoining land uses and it is  intended that the Zoning Board of Adjustment will review all such proposals for the types of uses  in compliance with the appropriate provisions before approval is granted and appropriate  permits are issued.
[See Article VIII.]
Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 11 of 139  6.01 Special Exception Procedures       A.
All uses listed as permitted by special exception shall require the submission of an  application to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
An application for a special exception use shall be  filed with the Building Inspector at least twenty‐one (21) days ahead of the scheduled hearing  date before the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
An application shall be filed by the property owner  of the authorized agent of the property owner on a form made available by the Building Inspector.
Such form shall be completed by the applicant or agent and include the following:    1.
The name, address and signature of the property owner and agent of the property   owner, if any  2.
The address of the property under consideration  3.
The existing zoning and land use of the property under consideration  4.
The proposed use by Special Exception  5.
A Vicinity map showing the location of the property  6.
A plot plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries and the     proposed layout.
7.
In addition, the applicant or agent must, at the time of application, provide the Building   Inspector with the names and addresses of adjacent property owners, as shown on the  most recent records of the County Tax Assessor’s Office.
8.
An administrative fee, as prescribed in the City Fee Schedule, is required from the  applicant or agent at the time the application is made.
6.02 Public Notice   A.
At least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled Zoning Board of Adjustment public hearing,  the applicant shall give written notice of the proposal to all adjacent property owners.
Such  notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States Mail in the form of  certified mail, addressed to those property owners at their addresses as submitted by the  applicant at the time application is made.
A copy of the certified mailing receipt shall be  provided to the City prior to the public hearing.
Such notice shall contain the following:     1.
The name of the applicant  2.
The location of the property  3.
The proposed use by Special Exception  4.
The time, date and location of the Zoning Board of Adjustment Public Hearing.
using a template provided by the City.
7.00  Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance or the Zoning Map   The regulations and the number, area and boundaries of districts established by this Ordinance  may be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed by the City Council of the City of  Leeds; but no amendment shall be considered unless it is first submitted to the Leeds Planning  Commission for its review and recommendation.
This body may, on its own initiative, propose  changes and hold public hearings (public notice of which shall be posted) for the consideration or  any proposed amendments to the provisions of this Ordinance or to the official Zoning Map of  The City of Leeds, Alabama.
Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 12 of 139    7.01 Authority to Amend   Whenever the public warrants, convenience, general welfare or good zoning practices  warrants such action, the City Council, by favorable vote of a majority of the members,  may amend the regulations of zoning district boundaries herein established, in  accordance with the Code of Alabama, 1975, § 11‐52‐78 or as same may be amended.
7.02 Authorized Petitioners     A petition for amendment of this Ordinance or the Zoning District Boundaries may be  initiated by the City Council, the Planning Commission, or by the property owner or agent  of such property owner.
7.03 Petition for Amendment     A.
A petition for amendment, when initiated by the property owner or by an authorized  agent of the property owner, shall meet the application requirements of this section.
B.
The application for rezoning shall be made on a form available from the Building  Inspector and shall be filed with the Building Inspector at least twenty‐one (21) days  prior to the Planning Commission Hearing.
The applicant shall provide the following  information and materials:    1.
The name, signature and address of the property owner and agent of the   property owner, if any  2.
The address and legal description of the property under consideration,   accompanied by a copy of the applicable tax maps clearly identifying the  property subject to the rezoning request.
3.
The present and proposed zoning and land use of the property under  consideration   4.
The reason for the rezoning request  5.
The availability of required utilities and methods of storm water drainage and   traffic control  6.
A vicinity map, drawn to scale, showing the size and location of the subject   property  7.
A site plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries,   public rights‐of‐way, and the proposed use and development layout  8.
The names and addresses of all of the adjacent property owners, as shown on   the most recent records of the County Tax Assessor’s Office.
9.
An administrative fee as prescribed by the City Fee Schedule.
§8.00  City Council Action on Amendments     8.01  Notification and Adoption Requirements     A.
At the time and place scheduled for the public hearing of the proposed  amendment, the City Council shall hear the presentation of the applicant,  review the recommendation of the Planning Commission and hear any  arguments in opposition to and/or support of the proposal by the general  public.
Article III – ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  Zoning Ordinance          Page 13 of 139  B.
After such hearing, the City Council may adopt the Ordinance as reported by  the Planning Commission or in such amended form as it deems best.
C. After the Ordinance is adopted by the City Council, it must again be  published in the same manner as all municipal ordinances, subject to the  provisions of Section 11‐45‐8 of the Code of Alabama.
§ 9.00    Limitations on Rezoning Requests       Should the City Council reject a rezoning amendment proposal by a property owner, the same  kind of rezoning of the same tract of land will not be considered by the Planning Commission  until a period of six (6) months has elapsed from the date of such action by the City Council.
Further, a withdrawal of the application for rezoning after the hearing held by the Planning  Commission, but prior to the public hearing held by the City Council, shall also require a six (6)  month time period before another application may be submitted.
Article IV ‐ DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 14 of 139  ARTICLE IV     DEFINITIONS    § 1.00    Purpose of Definitions     For the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance, certain terms used in the Ordinance shall have the  meanings defined by this Article.
In the event a term is not listed in this Article or is not defined  elsewhere in this Ordinance, the conventional meaning of the term shall apply.
1.01 Interpretation     The Leeds Building Inspector is authorized to make a final determination of the meaning  of any term used in this Ordinance.
In the case of any dispute, an appeal of the Building  Inspector’s determination may be filed with the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
1.02 Word Usage     In the interpretation of this Zoning Ordinance, the provisions and rules of this section  shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly requires otherwise.
A.
Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other tenses and derivative   forms.
B.
Words in the singular number shall include the plural number and words in the plural   number shall include the singular number.
C. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the feminine gender shall   include the masculine.
D. The word “Shall” is mandatory and the word “May” is permissive.
E. The word “Person” includes an individual, firm corporation, association, organization,   partnership, trust, or company.
§ 2.00    Words and Phrases Defined     The following general terms, when referred to in this Ordinance, shall have the meanings defined  by this section:     ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE – Any motor vehicle which is partially dismantled, inoperative,  (see inoperative motor vehicle definition), wrecked or junked which is left at any place on a  street or highway within the City limits for a period of at least seventy‐two (72) consecutive  hours.
ABUT – To physically touch or border upon or to share a common border with or be separated  from the common border by an easement.
ACCESS – A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a property.
Article IV ‐ DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 15 of 139  ACCESS BOUNDARY – That portion of the parking area that consists of a travel lane bounded on  either side by an area that is not part of the parking area.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE – A structure detached from a principal building on the same lot and  customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building or use.
All buildings are  considered structures but not all structures are buildings.
ACRE – A measure of land containing 43,560 square feet or area.
ADDITION – A structure added to the original structure at some time after completion of or after  a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued for the original structure.
ADJACENT – To physically touch or border upon or to share a common border with or be  separated from the common border by an easement.
ADJOIN – To physically touch or border upon or to share a common border with or be separated  from the common border by an easement.
AIRPORT – A place where commercial aircraft can land and takeoff.
Such use may include:  terminals, hangers, fueling and repair facilities, passenger accommodations and other integrally  related facilities.
ALLEY – A service way providing a secondary means of access to abutting property and not  intended for general traffic circulation.
ALTERATION – Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing building,  such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior partitions, as well as any change to  doors or windows, or any enlargement to a building or a structure, whether structure from one  location to another.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL – A place where small household pets are given medical treatment, which  may include surgical treatment, and where the short‐term boarding of pets within an enclosed  building may be provided.
ANIMAL SHELTER ‐ A non‐profit or public organization providing shelter for domestic animals.
ANTENNA – An exterior apparatus designed to transmit and/or receive electromagnetic waves.
ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE – Any structure on which radio antennas and cabling can be  attached.
Typically this includes steel towers with guy‐wires (guy towers); wooden, steel or  concrete single poles (monopoles); self‐supporting steel towers with three or four “leg” (towers);  rooftops or existing buildings or structures such as elevated water storage tanks.
ANTENNA, ACCESSORY – An antenna which is accessory to the primary use of the premises, and  which may include: parabolic antennae, amateur radio towers and other transmitters and  receivers that are secondary to the primary use of the premises.
Article IV ‐ DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 16 of 139  ANTENNA, COMMERCIAL – An antenna, which is not accessory to the primary use of the  premises, but is either an integral part of the primary use, such as television and radio broadcast  antennae and parabolic antennae for the receipt of signals for commercial distribution; or a  separate business from the primary use, such as telecommunications antennae.
APARTMENT – Three (3) or more attached, multi‐family dwelling units within a building of three  stories or less.
APPLICANT – A person submitting an application for a permit, development of property, a  variance, a special exception use or rezoning of property.
BAKERY – A business, which bakes goods primarily for wholesale trade, which may also include  storage and distribution facilities.
BAKERY, MAJOR – An establishment which bakes goods primarily for wholesale and/or retail sale  which may also include storage and distribution facilities.
BAKERY, MINOR – An establishment which bakes goods for on‐premises retail sale only.
BAKERY, RETAIL – A business which bakes goods for on‐premises retail sale only.
BANK – A business engaged in providing banking or financial services to the general public, such  as: banks, savings and loan institutions, credit unions, finance companies and similar uses.
BASEMENT – A portion of a building located wholly or partially underground, having one‐half  (1/2) or more of its floor‐to‐ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN ‐ A house, or portion thereof, where short‐term lodging rooms and  meals are provided.
The operator of the Inn shall live on the premises or in adjacent premises.
BEDROOM – A room designed, marketed or otherwise intended to function primarily for  sleeping.
BERM – A grass covered or landscape mound of earth with a slope of one‐third (1/3) degrees or  greater on both sides of the mound used to screen activities or uses.
BINGO FACILITY – A location, which has been inspected and approved by the City used for the  purpose of playing bingo games pursuant to a permit issued under Ordinance No.
2009‐09‐01.
BLOCK – A tract or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets other than alleys.
BOARDER – An individual, other than a member of a family, occupying the dwelling unit or part  thereof, which, for compensation, is furnished sleeping accommodations and is furnished meals  and other services as a part of consideration.
BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT – The Zoning Board of Adjustment of the City of Leeds,  Alabama.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 17 of 139    BOARDING HOUSE – A dwelling for the residency of two (2) or more boarders on a long‐term  basis (at least month‐to‐month).
Each unit intended to be rented does not constitute a dwelling  unit as defined in this Ordinance    BR – Bedroom or guest accommodations.
BROADCAST STUDIO – Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of broadcasting and  other information relay services accomplished through the use of electronic and telephonic  mechanisms, including: film and sound recording, radio stations, television studios or telegraphic  service offices.
BUFFER – A strip of land that is retained in an undeveloped state for the purpose of providing a  means of screening or separating incompatible land uses, promoting visual harmony, reducing  noise, diverting emissions, reducing the effects of adjacent lighting and enhancing the natural  environment.
Buffers may consist of existing or planted trees, shrubs or other forms of  vegetation, fences, walls or earth berm(s).
BUILDING – A structure designed and intended to be used as a place of occupancy, storage or  shelter.
BUILDING LINE – A line generally parallel to the street right‐of‐way line at a distance equal to the  depth of the front yard required for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE – A line generally parallel to the street right‐of‐way line at a distance  equal to the depth of the front yard required for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
BUILDING SETBACK, FRONT – The shortest distance from the building to the front lot line,  measured perpendicular to the front lot line.
BUILDING SETBACK, REAR – The shortest distance from the building to the rear lot line, measured  perpendicular to the rear lot line.
BUILDING SETBACK, SIDE – The shortest distance from the building to the side lot line, measured  perpendicular to the side lot line.
BUILDING SPACING – The minimum distance between buildings, measured from the outermost  projection, excluding bay windows, chimneys, flues, columns, ornamental features, cornices and  eaves.
BUILDING, FRONT – The exterior wall of a building which faces the designated front lot line of a  lot.
BUILDING, HEIGHTS – The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the finished  grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL – See principal building.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 18 of 139  BUILDING, PUBLIC – Any building held, used, or controlled exclusively for public purposes by any  department or branch of government, state, county, or municipal, without reference to  ownership of the building or of the realty upon which it is situated, A building belonging to or  used by the public for the transaction of public business or quasi‐public business.
BUSINESS OFFICE ‐  A place where the administrative affairs of a business or a profession are  conducted, such as: a law firm, accounting or bookkeeping firm; real estate agency; insurance  agency; financial planner; architect; consulting services; physician or dentist; secretarial service;  engineer; the administrative staff of a business or industry; and, similar uses.
BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICE – A place of business which supplies support services primarily to  business or professional offices or services, such as: photocopying; office equipment; supplies  and services; cleaning services; computer and office equipment and repair and/or service; and  similar establishments.
CAMPGROUND – A group of buildings or structures, on a site of ten (10) acres or more, (planned  as a whole) for seasonal recreation or vacation uses, including: tent campsites, travel trailer or  recreational vehicle sites; vacation cottages, recreational facilities, eating facilities, (such as picnic  tables and/or outdoor grills) and bathrooms, which may include a facility which provides for the  sale of personal items and gifts.
CAR WASH – A commercial establishment engaged in washing or cleaning of automobiles and  light vehicles.
Such a facility may be automated or may employ the services of individuals to  perform such services manually.
CARPORT – A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage of motor vehicles and  enclosed on not more than three (3) sides.
CELLULAR SITE – A parcel of land or building (leased or purchased) on which is located one or  more transmitter/receiver stations for wireless communication systems, including accessory  facilities for equipment storage and operations.
In cases involving vacant land, or low lying  existing antennas are usually required.
CEMETERY – Human burial grounds.
CEMETERY, PET – Burial grounds for domestic animals which were pets.
CITY – Shall mean the City of Leeds, Alabama.
CITY COUNCIL – Shall mean the City Council of the City of Leeds, Alabama.
CIVIC CENTER – A building, structure, or other facility used for and providing: religious, fraternal,  educational, social and/or recreational programs and activities generally open to the public and  designed to accommodate and serve significant segments of the community.
CLINIC – A facility providing medical, psychiatric or surgical services for sick or injured persons  exclusively on an out‐patient basis.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 19 of 139  CLUB – A group of people organized for a common purpose to pursue common goals, interests,  and activities and usually characterized by: certain membership qualifications, payment of  fees/dues, regular meetings, a constitution of set of bylaws.
COMMERCIAL PARKING – Parking of motor vehicles on a temporary basis within a commercially  operated, off‐street parking lot or garage.
COMMERCIAL SCHOOL – A private, gainful business providing instructional services in: the arts,  business, crafts, trades or professions.
COMMUNICATIONS TOWER – A free‐standing structure constructed or erected for the sole  purpose of supporting a commercial antenna.
COMMUNITY CENTER – A building, structure, or other facility used for and providing: religious,  fraternal, educational, social and/or recreational programs and activities generally open to the  public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments of the community.
CONDOMINIUM – An enclosed space consisting of one or more rooms occupying all or part of a  floor in a building or one or more floors or stories regardless of whether it is designed for  residence, office, the operation of any industry or business, or any other type of independent use  and shall include such accessory spaces and areas as may be described in the declaration, such as  garage space, storage space, balcony, terrace or patio.
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE – A place of business engaged in construction activities and incidental  storage, as well as wholesaling of building materials such as a building contractor, trade  contractor or wholesale building supply store.
This shall not include a home improvement  center, which also sells material at retail.
CONTIGUOUS – To physically touch or border upon or to share a common border with or be  separated from the common border by an easement.
CONVENIENCE STORE – A one‐story, retail establishment, with less than two thousand (2,000)  square feet of gross floor area, that is primarily designed to sell food, beverages and other  household goods and products to customers who purchase only a relatively few items at a time  (in contrast to a supermarket).
Such establishment may also engage in the incidental sale of  vehicle fuel, oil and accessories; but, it shall not engage in either major or minor vehicle repair  activities, as defined in this Ordinance.
COUNCIL – Shall mean the City Council of the City of Leeds, Alabama.
COUNTRY CLUB – Land or buildings containing recreational facilities and a club house for private  club members and their guests.
CUL‐DE‐SAC – A dead‐end street terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
DAY CARE CENTER – A licensed facility, other than a residence, providing day care on a regular  basis to more than six (6) children, elderly, handicapped or infirm persons.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 20 of 139  DAY CARE HOME – A licensed service, operated from a dwelling by the resident, providing day  care on a regular basis to six (6) or less children, elderly or infirm persons.
DENSITY – The minimum required lot area per dwelling unit or the maximum number of dwelling  units allowed by this Ordinance per site area.
DEVELOPMENT – The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more parcels; the construction,  reconstruction, conversion, alteration, relocation, or enlargement of a structure; any mining,  dredging, fitting, grading, paving, excavation, drilling, or disturbance of land; and any use or  extension of the use of the land.
DISTRIBUTION – Warehousing, wholesaling and distribution refers to the use of land and  structures for the purpose of storing materials with the intent to sell and/or distribute such  materials.
These facilities may be distribution centers, wholesale operations, open air storage  facilities, etc.
The premises may be used to store both perishable and nonperishable items (with  adequate facilities to prevent pollution, toxicity, health and sanitary hazards and general  nuisance); trucks, trailers, and other transportation devices and equipment; construction  equipment and devices; and, other bulk storage materials, in the open, such as: sand, gravel,  bricks, cinder blocks, timber, clay, steel (columns, girders, trusses, plates, sheets, pipes, etc.)
water and sanitary sewer supplies, fixtures, etc., should be done in a manner to prevent  accidents.
Materials, such as: sand, gravel, clay, etc.
should be well contained to prevent any  form of their displacement that may occur due to rain, storms and other phenomena, resulting in  the jeopardizing of any neighboring land uses, wetlands, parks, floodplains, environmentally  sensitive areas, surface water supplies, sewage disposal systems, etc.
DOMICILIARY CARE FACILITY – Licensed homes for the aged, intermediate institutions and related  institutions (not otherwise defined in this ordinance) the primary purpose of which is to furnish  room, board, laundry, personal care and other non‐medical services (regardless of what it may be  named or called) for not less than twenty‐four (24) hours in any week, to individuals not related  by blood or marriage to the owner or administrator.
This kind of care implies sheltered  protection and a supervised environment for persons, who, because of age or disability, are  incapable of living independently in their own homes or in a commercial room and board  situation, yet who do not require the medical and nursing services provided by a nursing home.
In these facilities, there might be available, temporarily and incidentally, the same type of limited  medical attention that an individual would receive if living at home.
DU – Dwelling unit.
DUPLEX – Two (2) attached, single‐family dwelling units.
DWELLING – Any building or portion there of which is designed, intended, or used for human  occupancy.
DWELLING UNIT – A building or portion thereof, providing separate, complete and independent,  living facilities for one or more persons comprising a household, including permanent provisions  for sleeping, cooking and sanitation.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 21 of 139  DWELLING UNIT, ATTACHED – Three (3) or more dwelling units adjoining one another by a  common wall, roof or floor, such as a townhouse or apartment.
DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED – A dwelling designed for and occupied by not more than one (1)  family and having no roof, wall or floor in common with any other dwelling unit, such as a single‐ family residence, manufactured home, modular home, patio home or garden home.
DWELLING UNIT, MULTI‐FAMILY – A building containing two (2) or more dwelling units on a  commonly shared lot, such as a duplex or apartment.
DWELLING, SEMI‐DETACHED – Two (2) dwelling units adjoining one another by a common wall,  roof or floor, such as a duplex or twin townhouses.
DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY – A dwelling unit on an individual lot, such as a single‐family  residence, garden home, patio home, manufactured home, townhouse or modular home.
EASEMENT – Authorization by a property owner of the use of a designated part of his property by  another for a specified purpose.
EMPLOYEE – The maximum number of persons employed at the facility regardless of the time  period during which this occurs or whether the persons are full‐time employees.
The major shift  may be a particular day of the week; or, it may be a lunch or dinner period in the case of a  restaurant.
ENTERTAINMENT, INDOOR – A commercial establishment providing spectator entertainment  within an enclosed building, including: movie theaters, playhouses, etc.
ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR – A commercial establishment providing spectator entertainment in  open, partially‐enclosed or screened facilities, including sports arenas, racing tracks, drive‐in  theaters, amusement parks, and similar activities.
ERECT ‐ To: build, construct, attach, hang, place, mount, suspend or affix and it shall include the  painting of wall signs upon the exterior wall surface of buildings or other structure.
EQUIPMENT RENTAL, MAJOR – A place of business engaged in the sale or rental of: heavy trucks  (over one ton); construction equipment tractors and farm implements; and similar equipment  including the storage, maintenance, and servicing of such vehicles and equipment.
EQUIPMENT RENTAL, MINOR – A commercial establishment engaged in the sale or rental of:  automobiles, light trucks, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, boats and motorcycles.
(This  includes the incidental: parking storage, maintenance, servicing, and repair of such vehicles).
All  servicing and repair work shall be performed within an enclosed building, with the exception of  the washing and waxing or such vehicles.
EQUIPMENT SALES, MAJOR – A place of business engaged in the sale or rental of: heavy trucks  (over one ton); construction equipment tractors and farm implements; and similar equipment  including the storage, maintenance, and servicing of such vehicles and equipment.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 22 of 139  EQUIPMENT SALES, MINOR – A commercial establishment engaged in the sale or rental of:  automobiles, light trucks, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, boats and motorcycles.
(This  includes the incidental: parking storage, maintenance, servicing, and repair of such vehicles).
All  servicing and repair work shall be performed within an enclosed building, with the exception of  the washing and waxing or such vehicles.
FAMILY – One (1) or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit.
FARM – A parcel of land, consisting of at least five (5) acres of land, in one (1) ownership, used for  the production, keeping or maintenance, for sale or lease, of plants and animals useful to man,  including the following activities:     • Forage and Sod Farms  • Livestock, such as beef cattle, swine, sheep, goats, or any similar livestock; including   the breeding and raising of such animals but not including commercial meat  processing operations; this shall not be construed to include the slaughter and  processing of animals grown on the premises for personal consumption.
• Poultry, including egg production, but not including commercial poultry processing  operations   • Nursery operations involving the raising of plants, shrubs and trees for sale and  transplantation, including greenhouses and the incidental sale of items customarily  associated with the operation of a nursery.
• Bees and apiary installations and products:  • Fisheries, excluding commercial fish processing operations;  • Fruit and vegetables of all kinds, including the growing and harvesting of such fruit   and vegetables, but excluding commercial food processing operations.
• Temporary sawmills and chippers (used in connection with timber cutting   operations) Subject to the requirements set forth in the Supplemental Regulations,  Article VII, Article VII, § 10.00 (11)   • Barns and other accessory structures associated with farming and livestock Subject to  Supplemental Regulations, § 10.00 (D).
• Blacksmith operations  • A booth or stall (farm stand) Subject to the requirements of the Supplemental   Regulations, Article VII, § 10.00 (C).
• Kennels  • Residences as listed in the A‐1 Agriculture District, subject to the conditions set forth   therein.
FARM SUPPORT BUSINESS – A commercial establishment engaged in the sale of farm support  goods, equipment and services, including the following activities:     • The sale of feed, grains, fertilizers, pesticides, trees, seeds, plants, and similar goods:  • The provision of warehousing and storage facilities for raw farm products; and  • The provisions of veterinary services to farm animals.
FOWL – Chickens, turkeys,   ducks, geese, quail, guineas, etc.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 23 of 139  FENCE – An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of materials, or  vegetation which is planted or retained as a means to enclose or screen areas of land or land  uses.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION – A business engaged in providing banking or financial services to the  general public, such as: banks, savings and loan institutions, credit unions, finance companies and  similar uses.
FLEX BUILDING – Any building, which is designed to allow its occupants flexibility of alternative  uses of the space within such building, which may include office, industrial, research and  development and showroom space.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS – The total area of a building measured by taking the outside dimensions of  the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or storage.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS LEASE‐ABLE (GLA) – The total floor area of a building designed for both  tenant occupancy and exclusive use, but does not include shared or common areas among  tenants.
FLOOR AREA, LIVABLE – The area of the first floor plus the area of the floors next above, and the  area under a sloping roof having a minimum ceiling height of six (6) feet.
Garage floor area,  basements, decks, porches, patios, terrace and carport floor area are not included as livable floor  area.
FUNERAL HOME – A building (or part thereof) used for human funeral services.
Such building  may contain space and facilities for:     A.
The embalming and the performance of other services used in preparation of  the dead for burial.
B.
The performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures.
C. The storage of caskets, funeral urns, and other funeral supplies.
D. Space for storage of funeral vehicles is allowed, but funeral homes shall not   include facilities for cremation.
When a funeral home is permitted, a funeral chapel shall also be permitted as an incidental use.
GARAGE SALE – The sale of personal belongings, by an individual, in his or her residence,  property or premises.
[See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, § 8.00 A & B, Garage or Yard  Sales]    GARAGE, REPAIR – Any place of business engaged in major vehicle repair activities as defined in  this Ordinance.
Such establishments may also engage in minor vehicle repair activities and in the  sale of vehicle fuel.
All major vehicle repair work shall be performed entirely within an enclosed  building.
No such building or premises shall be used for the parking of vehicles which are offered  for sale, nor shall any abandoned or inoperative motor vehicles be permanently stored on the  premises.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 24 of 139  GARDEN CENTER – Retail sale of plants, trees, shrubs and the like for ornamental purposes  conducted from a building, greenhouse, outdoor display area or stand, including incidental sales  of items customarily associated with such sales activities (containers, fertilizers, ornaments,  mulch, potting soil, small gardening tools and equipment, and seeds.
GARDEN HOME – A detached, single‐family dwelling designed on a small lot with one (1) zero lot  line on one side.
(See typical illustration below)       GASOLINE SERVICE STATION – A commercial establishment providing fuel, lubricants, parts and  accessories for vehicles, which may also engage in the incidental sale of food items and  beverages.
Minor vehicle repair activities (as defined in this section) may also be performed.
However, neither the principal building nor the premises shall be used for the parking of motor  vehicles offered for sale, nor such building or premises shall be used for the permanent storage  of inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles.
All gasoline storage tanks shall be underground and  in full compliance with Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM)  requirements as well as all other applicable laws and requirements.
GENERAL RETAIL, ENCLOSED – Retail sales of goods and services, not otherwise defined in this  section, including, but not limited to, food sales, department stores, clothing stores, home  furnishings, appliance stores, automobile parts and supply stores, video rental, gift shops, florist  shops, hardware stores, jewelry stores, variety stores, sporting goods stores, antique shops,  auction houses, and similar retail activities.
GENERAL RETAIL, UNENCLOSED – The retail sales of goods and services not otherwise defined in  this section, conducted partially or fully outside the principal building, including, but not limited  to: sidewalk sales, flea markets, outdoor food service and similar activities.
GLA – Gross leasable floor area.
The total floor area of a building designed for both tenant  occupancy and exclusive use.
The GLA includes both owned and leased areas, but does not  include shared or common areas among tenants.
Where the total floor area of a building is  occupied or where a building has no shared or common area, it is the gross floor area measured  by taking the outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or  storage.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 25 of 139    GOLF COURSE – Public or private land and buildings associated with a golf course, including a  country club.
GROCERY STORE – A retail establishment which usually contains in excess of 2,000 square feet in  which the following items are normally sold: a wide range of food items, beverages, household  supplies, personal care items, etc.
Such facility may also contain sections offering for sale such  items as flowers and plants, magazines, deli and/or minor bakery, but shall not engage in any  form of vehicle repair or maintenance of the sale of vehicle fuel.
GROUP CARE HOME – A dwelling shared by handicapped persons, including resident staff, who  live together as a single housekeeping unit and in a long‐tern, family‐like environment in which  staff persons provide care and education and work toward enabling the resident to live as  independently as possible in order that he or she may participate in community activities, and, at  the same time, work to reach his or her maximum development potential.
(See Code of Alabama,  1975, § 11‐52‐75, Regulation as to housing of mentally retarded or mentally ill persons in multi‐ family zone, as amended).
HALFWAY HOUSE – A licensed home for inmates on release from more restrictive custodial  confinement or an initial place in lieu of such more restrictive custodial confinement, wherein  supervision, rehabilitation and counseling are provided to guide residents back into society,  enabling them to live independently.
HOBBY FARM – A two (2) acre or larger tract of land used for the keeping or maintenance of farm  animals personally useful to the occupants of the dwelling on the same tract.
HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER – A place of business providing building, yard and garden  supplies, yard maintenance equipment, paint, wallpaper, plumbing supplies, building supplies,  home improvement publications and information, appliances; tools and similar products either at  retail or wholesale.
HOME OCCUPATION – A business, profession, occupation or trade which is conducted for  personal gain or support and is located entirely within the living area of the dwelling, as an  incidental activity of the residents of that dwelling.
Such an activity shall not alter the exterior of  the dwelling or the property or affect the residential character of the neighborhood in which it is  located.
HOSPITAL – An establishment which provides health services primarily for inpatient medical or  surgical care of the sick and injured, including accessory facilities such as: laboratories,  pharmacies, out‐patient clinics, training facilities, gift shops, coffee shops, cafeterias and staff  offices.
HOTEL: A building or part thereof occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of  individuals in which the rooms are usually occupied singularly for hire and in which rooms no  provision for cooking is made and in which building there is usually a kitchen and public dining  room for the accommodation of the occupants and guest.
Guest shall not stay at the facility for  more than 21 days.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 26 of 139  IMPROVEMENT – Any man‐made immovable item which becomes a part of, placed upon or  affixed to real estate.
INDUSTRY, HEAVY – All meat and poultry processing facilities; slaughterhouses; the storage of  manufacturing, disposal or destruction of: flammable, explosive or toxic materials, or other  materials generally considered to be hazardous.
INDUSTRY, LIGHT – A use engaged in the manufacturing, predominately from previously prepared  materials, finished products or parts, including fabrication, assembling, treatment and packing of  such products; and the incidental storage, sale and distribution of such products.
This use  excludes the basic industrial process.
INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE – A motor vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public streets  for reasons including, but not limited to being unlicensed, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of  disrepair or incapable of being moved from one location to another under its own power.
JUNK YARD – A lot, structure or part thereof, used primarily for: the collecting, storage and sale  of waste paper, rags, scrap metal or other discarded materials; the collecting, dismantling,  storage and salvaging of machinery or motor vehicles not in running condition, or for sale of parts  thereof.
KENNEL – Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs or cats over four months of age are  kept.
LAND USE DISTRICT – An area of land within a PCD designated as PR‐1, PR‐2, PC or PI, as further  defined in Article VI, Subsections 18.04 through 18.07 herein.
LIGHT, INDIRECT ‐ One reflecting light from a separate outside source aimed toward it, including  silhouettes on a background or reflected light.
LIGHT, DIRECT ‐   One emitting light from a source within or affixed to the sign face and beaming  outward from it.
LIGHT, INTERMITTENT ‐   Any flashing traveling light, including arrangements that spell messages,  simulate motion or form various symbols or images.
LIQUOR LOUNGE – A licensed establishment engaged in the preparation, sale of serving of liquor  for consumption on the premises.
This shall include, but not be limited to, the following terms:  taverns, bars, cocktail lounges, nightclubs and similar uses where liquor consumption is a primary  or incidental activity on the premises of the establishment.
Not included in this definition are  establishments which sell alcoholic beverages for off‐premise consumption only, such a package  store, State Alcoholic Beverage Store, supermarkets, convenience stores, etc.
LIVABLE FLOOR AREA – any floor area within a dwelling usable for any combination of sleeping,  eating, cooking, recreation or working purposes.
LIVESTOCK – Cows, horses, goats, sheep, swine, ponies, etc.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 27 of 139  LIVESTOCK SALES – The sale of animal livestock within an enclosed yard or structure, including:  Livestock markets, horse or cattle auctions and similar activities.
LOADING AREA – That area used to satisfy the requirements of this Ordinance for truck loading  and unloading.
LOADING SPACE – An off‐street space or berth used for the unloading or loading of commercial  vehicles.
LOCATION ‐ Any lot premises, building, structure, wall or place whatsoever upon which a sign is  located.
LOT – A parcel of land in one (1) ownership, used or set aside and available for use as the site of  one (1) or more buildings and accessory structures or for any other permitted purpose.
LOT AREA ‐ The minimum area contained within the property of the individual parcels of land  shown on the subdivision plat or survey.
Lot area excludes any area within an existing or future  street right‐of‐way or any area devoted to common open space.
LOT FRONTAGE – The lot width measured at the street fine.
When a lot has more than one (1)  street line, lot width shall be measured and the minimum lot w3idth shall be measured and the  minimum lot width required by this Ordinance shall be provided at each such line.
LOT LINE – A line bounding a lot which divides one (1) lot from another or from a street or from  any other public or private place.
LOT LINE, FRONT – The lot line the principal structure parallels shall be considered the front yard  of the lot.
In cases where structures face two (2) streets, the lot line that has the least frontage  shall be deemed to be the front yard.
Where lot lines are approximately the same, the owner  shall specify which shall be considered the front yard.
(See illustration under Lot Line – Rear for  example)    LOT LINE, REAR – That lot line which is parallel to and most distant from the front line or the lot.
In the case of an irregular or triangular lot, a line ten feet (10’) in length, entirely within the lot,  parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line shall be considered to be the rear  lot line.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 28 of 139      LOT LINE, SIDE – Any lot line other than a front lot line or a rear lot line.
LOT OF RECORD – Any legally recorded lot, which, at the time of its recording, complied with all  applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.
LOT OF RECORD, NON‐CONFORMING – Any legally recorded lot, which, at the time of its  recording complied with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations, but as the result of the  adoption of this ordinance, may possess less area and width than required for the district in  which it is located.
LOT SITE ‐ The minimum area contained within the property of the individual parcels of land  shown on the subdivision plat or survey.
Lot area excludes any area within an existing or future  street right‐of‐way or any area devoted to common open space.
LOT, CORNER – A lot abutting two (2) or more streets at their intersections.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE OR THROUGH – A lot having frontage on two (2) or more streets, but  not at their intersections.
LOT, FLAG – A parcel of land which does not have the required minimum lot width at the building  line but has direct access to a public street through a narrow strip of land which is part of the  same lot.
The lot lines of the narrow portion of the lot (the flag pole) are parallel or nearly  parallel.
These provisions are intended for tracts with limited frontage that would limit the  number of lots with the required width, but the tract would have sufficient area to the rear for  one (1) or two (2) additional lots.
(See illustration below for examples of various types of lots  defined herein, including flag lot).
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 29 of 139      LOT, INTERIOR – A lot other than a corner lot (See Flag Lot Illustration)    LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE – A double frontage lot having a rear yard on a major street and a front  yard and access to a local or marginal access street.
LOUNGE – A business engaged in the sale or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on  the premises.
This shall include, but not be limited to: taverns, bars, cocktail lounges, nightclubs  and similar uses where the sale of alcoholic beverages is the primary source of business revenue  on the premises.
LUMBER YARD – The sale of lumber or other building supplies which are stored or displayed  outside of a building.
MOBILE HOME‐ A structure, transportable in one or more sections which is eight (8) or more in  width and is thirty‐two (32) body feet or more in length, and which is built on a permanent  chassis and is designed to be used as a dwelling with, or without, permanent foundation, when  connected to the required utilities and includes plumbing, heating, HVAC and electrical systems  contained therein.
MOTEL ‐A building or series of buildings in which lodging is offered for compensation, and which  is distinguished from a hotel primarily by reason of providing direct independent access to, and  adjoining parking for, each rental unit.
OPEN AIR MARKET – A business including the sales or display of retail merchandise or services  outside of a permanent structure.
PREMISES ‐ A lot or tract of land upon which a sign is located or is to be located.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 30 of 139  PRINCIPAL BUILDING ‐ A building in which the principal use of a particular zone is conducted.
Zone lots with multiple principal uses may have multiple principal buildings; but storage  buildings, garages and other buildings, which are clearly accessory in nature, shall not be  considered principal buildings.
RETAIL – The provision of services or the sale of goods and merchandise at retail prices to the  general public at large, for personal or household use or consumption.
SALVAGE YARD – A lot, structure or part thereof, used primarily for: the collecting, storage and  sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal or other discarded materials; the collecting, dismantling,  storage and salvaging of machinery or motor vehicles not in running condition, or for sale of parts  thereof.
SANITARY LANDFILL – A state approved site for solid waste disposal employing and engineering  method of waste disposal that minimizes environmental hazards.
This operation shall employ  processes of spreading, compacting to the smallest volume possible, and applying cover material  over all exposed waste at the end of each operating day.
NOTE: A sanitary landfill should not be  confused with a dump, which is illegal in any location.
Solid waste at a dump is disposed of  without being compacted and covered with little or no environmental considerations considered.
A sanitary landfill presents fewer health, and aesthetic problems and has the potential of being  reclaimed for other uses later.
The disposal of hazardous or radioactive waste material is not  permitted in a sanitary landfill.
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA – An accessory structure designed to receive television broadcasts  relayed by microwave signals from earth orbiting communication satellites.
SCHOOL – A public or non‐profit school.
SCREEN – To visually shield or obscure one abutting or nearby structure or use from another by  means of opaque fencing, walls, earth berm, or densely planted vegetation.
SEASONAL SALES – Unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance, the seasonal sale of farm  produce, firewood, Christmas trees and similar items shall be conducted either from motor  vehicles or premises.
Such items shall not be sold from permanent structures/locations.
The use  of structures or buildings in conjunction with said activity shall be temporary, as specified by the  City.
Such sales shall be subject to the City’s conditions at the time a business license is issued.
The terms SEASONAL SALES shall not be confused with OPEN AIR MARKET, defined in this  Ordinance.
SELF‐STORAGE FACILITY – A building or group of buildings consisting of individual storage units  leased to customers for the storage of personal property.
SELF STORAGE FACILITY, LIMITED ACCESS – A self‐service storage facility with limited access  points from the exterior of the building to interior halls that provide the only access to individual  storage units.
SELF STORAGE FACILITY, MULTI ACCESS – A self‐service storage facility with access points from  the exterior of the building to individual storage units.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 31 of 139    SF – Square feet.
SHOPPING CENTER – A group of commercial establishments located on a lot planned and  developed in a unified manner and designed with shared parking and driveway facilities, all under  a common ownership or management authority.
The premises shall not be used for the parking  of vehicles offered for sale.
SIGHT TRIANGLE – A triangular shaped portion of land established at street or driveway  intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as  to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
(See  typical illustration below)          SIGN, ANIMATED ‐ Any sign that uses movement or change in lighting to depict a special effect or  scheme.
SIGN, BANNER ‐ Any sign of light‐weight fabric or similar material that is temporarily mounted to  a pole or off a building by a permanent frame or one (1) or more edges, except national flags,  state and municipal flags or official flags of any institution or business.
See temporary sign.
SIGN, BENCH ‐ Any sign located on any part of the surface of a bench or seat placed on or  adjacent to a public right‐of‐way.
SIGN, BILLBOARD ‐ A non‐point of sale sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,  service or activity sold or offered for sale at a location other than the premises upon which the  said billboard is located.
See Outdoors Advertising Sign.
SIGN, BULLETION BOARD ‐ A sign which identifies an institution or organization on the premises  of which it is located and which contains the name of the institution or organization, the name of  individuals connected with it and general information or announcements of events or activities  occurring at the institution or similar messages.
SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY (Electronic) ‐ A sign board that is designed so that the characters,  letters or illustrations can be electronically changed or arranged without permanently altering  the face or the surface of the sign.
SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY (Manual).
A sign that is designed so that characters, letters or  illustrations can be manually changed or arranged without permanently altering the face or  surface of the sign.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 32 of 139  SIGN, CONSTRUCTION ‐ A sign that bears the name or names of the principal contractors,  architects and lending institutions responsible for the construction on the site where the sign is  places, together with other information included thereon.    .  SIGN, DIRECTORY ‐ A sign upon which the name and location of the occupants or the use of a  building is provided.
SIGN, FREE STANDING SIGN ‐ Any sign supported by structures or supports that are placed on or  anchored in the ground.
These signs are independent from any building or other structure.
SIGN, GROUND ‐ Any sign which is supported by structures or supports in or upon the ground and  is independent of supports from any building.
Also qualifies as a freestanding sign.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED ‐ A sign lighted by or exposed to artificial lighting from a source light on or  inside the sign face or directed towards the sign.
SIGN, MARQUEE ‐ Any permanent roof‐like structure projecting beyond a building or extending  along and projecting beyond the wall of a building, generally designed and constructed to provide  protection from the weather.
SIGN, NON‐CONFORMING ‐ Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of this  Ordinance.
SIGN, OFF‐PREMISE ‐ A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity, service,  entertainment or activity conducted, sold or offered for sale at a location other than the  premises upon which the sign is located.
SIGN, ON‐PREMISE ‐ A sign which advertises only goods, services, facilities, events or attractions  that are available on the premises or identifies the owner or the occupant or one that directs  traffic on the premises.
SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING ‐ A billboard, mini‐billboard or any other permanent sign which  directs the attention of the general public to a business, service, product or activity not  conducted, offered or sold as a major portion of business upon the premises where such sign is  located.
SIGN, PERMENANT ‐ A sign which is originally designed, constructed or modified to be  permanently affixed to a building, structure or to the ground  .
SIGN, PERMENANT, PORTABLE ‐ A sign which otherwise meets the definition of a “portable sign”  but has been permanently affixed to a building structure or to the ground.
PERSON ‐ Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or organization, singular or  plural, of any kind.
SIGN, PORTABLE ‐ Any sign which is not permanently fixed to the ground or other permanent  structure or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not limited to, signs designed to be  transported by means of wheels, signs converted to “A” or “T” frames, menu and sandwich board     Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 33 of 139  signs, balloons used as signs, umbrellas used for advertising and signs attached to or painted on  vehicles parked and visible from the public right‐of‐way, unless said vehicle is used in the day to  day operation of a business.
SIGN, PROJECTION ‐ Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner that its leading edge  extends more than six inches (6”) beyond the surface of such building or wall.
SIGN, ROOF ‐ Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a building,  supported by the roof structure.
SIGN, ROOF – INTREGAL ‐ Any sign erected or constructed as an integral and essential part of a  normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of the sign extends vertically above the  highest portion of the roof and no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a  space of more than six inches (6”).
SIGN ‐ A name, identification, image, description, display or illustration which is affixed to,  painted on or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or piece of land and  which directs attention to an object, product, place, activity, facility, service, event, attraction,  person, institution, organization or business and which is visible from any street, right‐of‐way,  sidewalk alley, park or other public property.
Customary displays of merchandise or objects and  material without lettering placed behind a store window are not considered signs or parts of a  sign.
All signs shall reflect a professional quality of workmanship, including all artwork, lettering,  ornamentation, etc.
SIGN, AREA ‐ The area of a sign, measured as follows:  The area of any geometric/non‐geometric  shape, which forms the sign that encompasses the extreme limits of each and every sign face,  including all advertising surfaces, background, framing and ornamentation, excluding structural  members that do not form an integral part of the display or pole covers which contain no  advertising copy.
The area of all such sign faces shall be totaled and then divided by two (2) to  determine the total sign area.
All other signs shall be measured as the area within a single  rectangle, which encompasses all letters, words, symbols or other graphic elements, plus any  background area, which does not appear as a continuous portion of the building surface.
SIGN FACE ‐ The surface or surfaces used for the display of a sign message as seen from only one  direction.
SIGNABLE WALL AREA ‐The area within a rectangle, which encompasses a continuous portion of a  building façade, unbroken by windows, doors or major architectural interruptions of the building  surface.
For signs located completely within a gable, sign able wall area may be triangular in  shape.
SIGN, SNIPE‐ A sign of any material that is attached in any way to a utility pole, tree or any object  located on a public right‐of‐way.
SIGN, TEMPORARY PORTABLE ‐ A portable sign which has not been permanently affixed to the  ground or to a building in accordance with local building codes, for which a special permit is  required.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 34 of 139  SIGN, TEMPORARY ‐ Any sign not originally designed, constructed or intended to permanently be  affixed to any building, structure or the ground.
All temporary signs shall be removed by the  party/parties responsible for them; and, where stipulated, such signs shall be removed within the  specified time period.
SIGN, TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION ‐ A temporary sign advertising the sale of property in an  approved subdivision within the City.
SIGN, WALL ‐ Any sign painted on or attached to and erected parallel to the face of or erected  and confined within the limits of, the outside wall of any building and supported by such wall or  building and which displays only one advertising surface.
SIGN, WINDOW ‐ Any sign, picture, symbol or combination thereof, designed to accommodate  information about an activity, business, commodity, product, service, event or sale that is placed  inside a window or upon the window pane of glass and is visible from the exterior of the building.
SINGLE‐FAMILY RESIDENCE – A detached, single‐family dwelling constructed on‐site and in  accordance with the requirements of the current International Code Council Residential Building  Code.
SITE – A parcel or parcels of land intended to have one (1) or more buildings or intended to be  subdivided into one (1) or more lots.
SITE AREA – A minimum land area required to qualify for a particular use or development.
Site  area is taken from an actual site survey and excludes:     • Land within an existing or future street right‐of‐way, or utility right‐of‐way easement;  • Land which is not contiguous or is cut off by a major barrier;  • Land which is part of a previously‐approved development, and  • Land, which is zoned for another use.
SPACING OF SIGNS ‐ The distance, between signs, measured from points directly opposite to the  signs along the nearest edge of the pavement or roadway, of the main thoroughfare or traveled  way of the street or thoroughfare to which said signs are directed.
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE – A use, which is permitted subject to special exception, is a use that  would not generally be appropriate without restriction (s) throughout the zoning district; but  which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would not be  detrimental to public health.
This use is permitted, subject to a Special Exception Use Permit  being granted by the Leeds Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate  permits being issued in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
SPECIAL EVENT ‐ A temporary outdoors use on private property that extends beyond the normal  uses and standards allowed by the zoning ordinance of the city.
“Special Event”  includes, but  is  not  limited  to, art  shows, pumpkin and Christmas  tree  sales, haunted houses,  carnivals  (major  and minor), special auto sales, grand openings, festivals, and bazaars.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 35 of 139  STABLE, PRIVATE – An accessory building in which horses or ponies are kept for private use and  not for commercial purposes including: boarding, riding, hire or sale.
STABLE, PUBLIC – A business where horses or ponies are kept for commercial use, including,  without limitation, boarding and riding lessons for a fee.
The definition shall also include the term  “riding school” where patrons purchase riding lessons.
STACKING SPACE – An off‐street space for the temporary stacking of vehicles with an aisle  intended to serve as a drive‐in window, take‐out food window, dry cleaning/laundry pick‐up or  similar type activity station.
STORY – That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor and upper  surface of the floor or ceiling next above.
A mezzanine (a low ceiling story between two main  stories of a building) or partial floor shall be counted as a story if the vertical distance from the  floor next below to the floor or ceiling next above is twenty‐four feet (24’) or more.
A basement  shall be counted as a story if it is used as a livable area (in the case of dwellings) or is used by the  principal use (in the case or other uses).
STREET – any vehicular way, which has been dedicated to the public use, including all land within  the right‐of‐way.
STRUCTURE – Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground or attached to  anything having a fixed location on the ground.
All buildings are structures, but not all structures  are buildings.
STUDIO – A place of work for an artist, photographer, or craftsman, including instruction, display,  production and retail sales of materials produced on the premises.
SUBDIVISION – The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, plats, sites or  other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or building development.
Such term includes re‐subdivision of land, and when appropriate to the context, relates to the  process of subdivision or to the land or territory subdivided.
[See also, City of Leeds, Subdivision  Regulations.]
SUPERMARKET – A retail establishment which usually contains in excess of 2,000 square feet in  which the following items are normally sold: a wide range of food items, beverages, household  supplies, personal care items, etc.
Such facility may also contain sections offering for sale such  items as flowers and plants, magazines, deli and/or minor bakery, but shall not engage in any  form of vehicle repair or maintenance of the sale of vehicle fuel.
SURFACE MINING – Any activity constituting all or part of a process for the removal of minerals,  ores or other solid matter for sale or for processing or for consumption in the regular operation  of a business.
(Subject to all State and Local Regulations pertaining to surface mining).
SWALE – A grassed area with gradual slopes, which transports storm water.
TATTOO FACILITY – A business in which the following is performed: (1) placing of an indelible  mark upon the body of another individual by the insertion of a pigment in or under the skin; (2)     Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 36 of 139  placing an indelible design upon the body of another individual by production of scars (branding);  and (3) performing body piercing or the perforation of hum tissue other than the ear for a non‐ medical purpose.
TERRACE – A leveled, landscaped or surface area on a lot directly adjacent to or close to a  principal building and not covered by a permanent roof.
TOWN CENTER – A mixed used center featuring multi‐story buildings with a vertical mix of uses,  on‐street parking, minimal building setbacks, pedestrian circulation and off‐street parking to the  rear of side of the buildings.
All town Center areas shall constitute part of the land use districts  within the PCD and shall be shown as Town Center on the PCD District map.
TOWNHOUSE – Townhouse means a form of ground‐related housing, in which individual dwelling  units are attached along at least one (1) common wall to at least one (1) other dwelling unit, with  no more than six (6) units attached together.
Each of these units occupies interior space from  the ground to the roof and has direct access to private open space.
TRANSMISSION TOWER, COMMERCIAL – See Article VII, Special Exception Uses, Section 13.00.
TRANSMISSION TOWER, NON‐COMMERCIAL – A non‐commercial structure which may be  situated in commercial or non‐commercial areas and may include amateur radio towers, ham  operations, private receivers, etc.
TRAVEL TRAILER – A structure that is intended to be transported over the streets, either driven as  a motor vehicle or attached to or hauled by a motor vehicle; and, it is designed for temporary  recreational use as sleeping quarters but does not meet the defined criteria of a Manufactured  (Mobile) Home.
TREE CUTTING, COMMERCIAL – Any individual, group, corporation, business or company engaged  in the cutting of trees or timber for profit or financial gain.
Such groups are usually required to  be bonded and licensed to carry on this type of activity.
TRUCK STOP – A commercial establishment which may contain a restaurant (standard) or a  delicatessen; gift shop, provisions for the incidental sale of gasoline, including diesel fuel;  designated areas for the temporary parking of large/rigs.
Including overnight parking: and, the  sale of vehicle equipment, motor oil and other vehicle accessories.
Such a facility may also  engage in minor vehicle repair activities, as defined in this Ordinance; however, such facility or  premise shall not be used for the permanent storage of the types of equipment mentioned  above.
There shall be no display of vehicles or equipment offered for sale or the storage of  inoperable or abandoned vehicles.
All gasoline storage tanks shall be in complete compliance  with Alabama Department of Environmental Management requirements as well as all local  regulations.
TRUCK TERMINAL – The land and buildings used as a relay station for the transfer of a load from  one vehicle to another or one party to another.
The terminal cannot be used for permanent or  long‐term accessory storage for principal land uses at other locations.
The terminal facility may  include storage areas for trucks and buildings or areas for the repair and maintenance of trucks  associated with the terminal.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 37 of 139    URBAN BARNYARD FACILITY ‐ A facility for the keeping of fowl and rabbits in an urban  environment.
USE – The activity or function that actually takes place or is intended to take place on a lot or site.
VARIANCE – A relaxation or waiver of the terms of this Ordinance (other than use, provisions) as  will not be contrary to the public interest where, owning to special conditions, literal  enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship.
However,  in all cases the spirit of this Ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done, as  determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
VEHICLE CLEANING – A commercial establishment, which engages in exterior and interior  cleaning of motor vehicles (washing interior shampoo of carpets, mats, and other interior parts of  the vehicle.
Such establishment may also engage in detailing work on motor vehicles such as  striping, molding, etc., as well as waxing and buffing of such vehicles.
VEHICLE DETAILING – A commercial establishment, which engages in exterior and interior  cleaning of motor vehicles (washing interior shampoo of carpets, mats, and other interior parts of  the vehicle.
Such establishment may also engage in detailing work on motor vehicles such as  striping, molding, etc., as well as waxing and buffing of such vehicles.
VEHICLE RENTAL, MAJOR – A place of business engaged in the sale or rental of: heavy trucks  (over one ton); construction equipment tractors and farm implements; and similar equipment  including the storage, maintenance, and servicing of such vehicles and equipment.
VEHICLE RENTAL, MINOR – A commercial establishment engaged in the sale or rental of:  automobiles, light trucks, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, boats and motorcycles.
(This  includes the incidental: parking storage, maintenance, servicing, and repair of such vehicles).
All  servicing and repair work shall be performed within an enclosed building, with the exception of  the washing and waxing or such vehicles.
VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR – A place of business engaged in the repair and maintenance of vehicles,  including painting, body work, rebuilding or vehicle engines or transmissions, upholstery work,  fabrication of parts and similar activities, all of which shall be performed entirely within an  enclosed building.
No such building or premises shall be used for the parking of vehicles, which  are offered for sale, nor shall any abandoned or inoperative motor vehicles be permanently  stored on the premises.
VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR – A place of business engaged in sales, installation and servicing of  mechanical equipment and parts, including: audio equipment and electrical work, lubrication,  tune‐ups, wheel alignment, tire balancing, brake and muffler work, battery charging and/or  replacement and similar activities.
No such building or premises shall be used for the parking of  vehicles, which are offered for sale, nor shall any abandoned or inoperative motor vehicles be  permanently stored on the premises.
VEHICLE SALES, MAJOR – A place of business engaged in the sale or rental of: heavy trucks (over  one ton); construction equipment tractors and farm implements; and similar equipment  including the storage, maintenance, and servicing of such vehicles and equipment.
Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 38 of 139      VEHICLE SALES, MINOR – A commercial establishment engaged in the sale or rental of:  automobiles, light trucks, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, boats and motorcycles.
(This  includes the incidental: parking storage, maintenance, servicing, and repair of such vehicles).
All  servicing and repair work shall be performed within an enclosed building, with the exception of  the washing and waxing or such vehicles.
WAREHOUSING – Warehousing, wholesaling and distribution refers to the use of land and  structures for the purpose of storing materials with the intent to sell and/or distribute such  materials.
These facilities may be distribution centers, wholesale operations, open‐air storage  facilities, etc.
The premises may be used to store both perishable and nonperishable items (with  adequate facilities to prevent pollution, toxicity, health and sanitary hazards and general  nuisance); trucks, trailers, and other transportation devices and equipment; construction  equipment and devices; and, other bulk storage materials, in the open, such as: sand, gravel,  bricks, cinder blocks, timber, clay, steel (columns, girders, trusses, plates, sheets, pipes, etc.)
water and sanitary sewer supplies, fixtures, etc., should be done in a manner to prevent  accidents.
Materials, such as: sand, gravel, clay, etc.
should be well contained to prevent any  form of their displacement that may occur due to rain, storms and other phenomena, resulting in  the jeopardizing of any neighboring land uses, wetlands, parks, floodplains, environmentally  sensitive areas, surface water supplies, sewage disposal systems, etc.
WHOLESALING – Warehousing, wholesaling and distribution refers to the use of land and  structures for the purpose of storing materials with the intent to sell and/or distribute such  materials.
These facilities may be distribution centers, wholesale operations, open‐air storage  facilities, etc.
The premises may be used to store both perishable and nonperishable items (with  adequate facilities to prevent pollution, toxicity, health and sanitary hazards and general  nuisance); trucks, trailers, and other transportation devices and equipment; construction  equipment and devices; and, other bulk storage materials, in the open, such as: sand, gravel,  bricks, cinder blocks, timber, clay, steel (columns, girders, trusses, plates, sheets, pipes, etc.)
water and sanitary sewer supplies, fixtures, etc., should be done in a manner to prevent  accidents.
Materials, such as: sand, gravel, clay, etc.
should be well contained to prevent any  form of their displacement that may occur due to rain, storms and other phenomena, resulting in  the jeopardizing of any neighboring land uses, wetlands, parks, floodplains, environmentally  sensitive areas, surface water supplies, sewage disposal systems, etc.
WRECKER SERVICE YARD – A lot or parcel of land used for the outside placement and/or storage  of vehicles awaiting final disposition.
Disabled vehicles may not be placed or stored on the  premises unless the property is properly zoned and all pertinent licenses maintained.
Vehicles  shall not be stored on the premises for a time period to exceed one hundred and twenty (120)  days.
This definition shall not be applicable to junk yards or salvage yards as defined in this  Ordinance.
YARD – A minimum open area, unobstructed from the ground up, extending along a lot line and  inward to the structure.
The yard shall be measured as the shortest distance between the  structure and the lot line.
YARD SALE – The sale of personal belongings, by an individual, in his or her residence, property or  premises.
[See Article VII, Supplemental Regulations, § 9.00 A & B, Garage or Yard Sales]     Article IV – DEFINITIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 39 of 139    YARD, FRONT – A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line between side lot lines  and from the front lot line to the front building line in depth.
YARD, SIDE – A yard lying between the main building and the side lot line extending from the  required front yard to the required rear yard.
YARD, REAR – A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying between the rear lot line  and the nearest line of the building.
(See typical illustrations of yards below).
[END OF DEFINITIONS]                 Article V – GENERAL REGULATIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 40 of 139  ARTICLE V     GENERAL REGULATIONS     § 1.00    General Use Regulations     The following general regulations pertain to the administration of, enforcement of and  compliance with this Ordinance.
§ 2.00    Application of this Ordinance     No structure shall be constructed, erected, placed or maintained and no land use commenced or  continued in the City of Leeds except as specifically or by necessary implication, authorized by  the City.
§ 3.00    Except as Otherwise Provided for in this Ordinance     A.
No land may be used except for a purpose permitted in this district of its location.
B.
No building shall be: erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally   altered; and, it shall adhere to the use permitted in the district in which it is located.
C. No building shall be: erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally   altered except in conformity with the area and height limits of the district in which the  building is located.
D. The minimum building line, number of parking spaces, open spaces, including lot area per  family, required by this Ordinance for each and every building existing at the time of passage  of this Ordinance or for any building hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon or  considered as a required building or open space for any other building, nor shall any lot area  be reduced below the requirements of this Ordinance.
E. Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on a lot as herein  defined and in no case shall there be more than one main    F. Buildings or structures hereafter constructed in the City of Leeds shall conform to all  applicable provisions of the American National Standard for Buildings and Facilities for  Physically Disabled and/or Handicapped.
[Note: It should be noted that certain types of  buildings are exempt from these requirements.]
§ 4.00    Joint Occupancy     No structure shall be erected, structurally altered for or used as, a single‐family or two‐family  dwelling simultaneously with any other use.
§ 5.00    Public Utilities     Utility structures including, but not limited to: poles, wires, cross arms, transformers attached to  poles, guy wires, insulators, conduits and other facilities necessary for the transmission or  distribution of electric power or to provide cable television, telephone or telegraph service and  pipe lines, vents, valves, hydrants, regulators, meters, and other facilities necessary for the  transmission or distribution of gas, oil, water and other utilities may be constructed, erected,  repaired, maintained or replaced within any district of the City of Leeds.
This is not to be     Article V – GENERAL REGULATIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 41 of 139  construed to include the erection or construction of buildings.
[See District regulations for public  utility facilities and services.]
§ 6.00    Non‐Conforming Uses     Within the districts established by this Ordinance or amendments that may later be adopted,  there exists: lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and characteristics of use which were  lawful before the Ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated  or restricted under the terms of this Ordinance or future amendments.
It is the intent of this  Ordinance to permit these non‐conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to  encourage their survival.
It is further the intent of this Ordinance that non‐conformities shall not  be enlarged upon, expanded, nor used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited  elsewhere in the same district in which the non‐conforming use is located.
6.01  Non‐conforming Lots of Record     A.
Where a lot of record existed at the time of the effective date of this Ordinance, having less   area or width then herein required for the district in which it is located, the following shall  apply:     1.
Said lot may none‐the‐less be used as a building site provided the yard space and other   requirements conform as closely as possible to the requirements of the district in which  it is located.
This, in the opinion of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
2.
The provision, in 1, shall not apply when two or more lots exist together, with contiguous  frontage in single ownership at the time of passage of this Ordinance or any time  thereafter.
Such land shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of  this Ordinance and shall not be used or sold in a manner which creates lot area or width  below the requirements stated in this Ordinance.
§ 7.00    Continuance     A lawful non‐conforming use existing at the effective date of adoption of this Ordinance may be  continued, except as hereafter provided; even though, such use does not conform with the  provisions of this Ordinance subject to the conditions outlines in § 6.00     § 8.00    Restoration to Safe Condition     Nothing in this Ordinance shall prevent the restoration of any building or structure to a safe or  sanitary condition when required by the proper authorities.
§ 9.00    Restoration after Damages     No non‐conforming building or structure which has been damaged by fire or act of God or other  causes to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its current replacement value, it may be  rebuilt or restored and used as before the damage, provided that such building or restoration is  completed within twelve (12) months of the date of such damage.
Article V – GENERAL REGULATIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 42 of 139  § 10.00   Abandonment or Discontinued Use     A non‐conforming use that has been abandoned or the use discontinued for a continuous period  of one (1) year shall not be re‐established and any future use shall be in conformity with all  applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
§ 11.00   Annexed Property      See Article VII, § 20.00, MR Municipal Reserve District for annexation procedures.
§ 12.00   Change in Use      A non‐conforming use shall not be changed to another non‐conforming use.
§ 13.00   Abandoned Right‐Of‐Way     Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated or abandoned by an official action of  the City of Leeds, the zoning district adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be  automatically extended to the center of the same and all the area included therein shall then be  subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended district.
§ 14.00   Reduction in Lot Area Prohibited     No lot shall be reduced in area so that yards and other open spaces total less than the minimum  area required under this Ordinance (See subsection 6.1.)
§ 15.00   Structures Conforming to District Regulations but no other Regulations     A structure or building conforming to the use regulations of a district, but not conforming to  other provisions of this Ordinance, may be enlarged or altered, provided that such enlargement  or alteration conforms to the provisions of this Ordinance.
For instance, a house in a residential  district with three bedrooms can have alterations made to it by way of adding a bedroom and a  bathroom, provided it still conforms to other requirements of this Ordinance such as setbacks,  building height, etc.
§ 16.00   Buildings to be Moved     Any building or structure that is to be moved to any location within the city limits of the City of   Leeds shall be considered for the purpose of this Ordinance to be a new building under  construction, and as such, shall conform to all applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
§ 17.00   General Requirements      The following sections shall be applicable to all the zoned districts in the City of Leeds:               Article V – GENERAL REGULATIONS  Zoning Ordinance          Page 43 of 139  17.01  Buffer Requirements     A.
The Buffer requirements shall conform to the values indicated in the Buffer  Matrix.
B.
The Planning Commission reserves the right to require additional buffer  supplements, over and above the prescribed buffer widths as shown on the  Buffer Matrix.
The elements of pollution; air; noise; etc.
; nuisances; contiguity of  grossly incompatible land uses; and other factors may justify the requirement for  additional buffer requirements.
C.  Plans for large buffer areas between incompatible uses, shall be represented in  scaled drawings, indicating: contours, areas with planted material, berms  (natural and artificial), etc.
Impervious surfaces shall be reduced to an absolute  minimum and all water runoff and drainage facilities shall be adequately shown  on these drawings.
D.  In large commercial and industrial areas, parking areas/lots may be used as a part  of a barrier, only in the fulfillment of the distance requirements provided in the  Buffer Matrix.
Other significant factors, such as: air pollution, noise reduction,  drainage and surface runoff, etc.
occurring due to a large number of vehicles,  large impervious surface areas, the nature of an operation, etc.
shall be  adequately accounted for through the use of trees, shrubs, berms, drainage  systems and other appropriate improvements.
17.02  Additional Regulations (When Applicable)                                 A.
The following additional regulations shall apply to all the districts, unless otherwise  stipulated:     1.
Administrative and Review Procedures, Article III  2.
Definitions, Article IV  3.
General Regulations, Article V  4.
Supplemental Regulations, Article VII  5.
Special Exception Uses, Article VIII  6.
Off‐Street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX  7.
Sign Regulations, Article X     17.03  Public Buildings     All public buildings shall have a front yard setback of fifty feet (50’).
In all other  residential districts, where permitted, public buildings shall have: a rear yard of thirty‐five  feet (35’), a side yard of thirty‐five feet (35’), a maximum height of forty‐five feet (45’).
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 44 of 139  ARTICLE VI     ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS       In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this Ordinance, the City of Leeds is hereby divided  into the following districts or zones.
The location, boundaries and area of which are, and shall be, as  shown and depicted on the official zoning map.
The said districts or zones are to be as follows:      A‐1    Agricultural District    E‐1    Single‐Family Residential Estate District    E‐2    Single‐Family Residential Estate District    R‐1    Single‐Family Residential District    R‐2    Single‐Family Residential District    R‐3    Multiple‐Family Residential District    R‐3‐T    Townhouse Residential District    R‐5    Garden Home Residential District    R‐6    Patio Home Residential District    PUD    Planned Unit Development District    RMHP    Residential Manufactured Home Park District    RMHS    Residential Manufactured Subdivision District   0‐1 Office Building District  B‐2    General Business District  B‐3    Tourist Commercial District  1‐1 Light Industrial District  1‐2 Heavy Industrial District  MR    Municipal Reserve District     The boundaries of the above named districts are hereby established as shown on the Zoning Map  of the City of Leeds, Alabama.
Any questions concerning the exact location of district boundary  lines shall be decided by the City of Leeds, Alabama, Zoning Board of Adjustment, as outlined in  Article III, Administration and Review Procedures, subsection 2.10     At the current time, the Code of Alabama, 1975, § 11‐52‐75 requires that all Group Care Homes  are located in the Multifamily District(s) only; however, with regard to future Federal and State  Regulations, any future amendments made to the Fair Housing Act, with regard to Group Care  Homes; and, changes in the Americans with Disabilities Act shall be duly incorporated, by way of  amendments, in this Ordinance.
Other amendments to the Code of Alabama, in regard to planning and zoning issues, shall also be  included in this zoning ordinance by way of amendments made to it.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 45 of 139  § 1.00      A‐1 Agricultural District     1.01 Intent     This district consists primarily of land where agricultural activities may occur within the  City.
The intent of A‐1 District is to preserve these areas in agriculture, forestry, rural  residential and other limited yet compatible land uses.
1.02 Uses Permitted     The following uses shall be permitted in the A‐1 Agricultural District.
Similar uses to  those listed below may also be permitted subject to Article III, Administration and Review  Procedures, section 2.11, Interpretation of Uses and section 2.12.
Unclassified Uses.
A.
Agricultural Uses     1.
Customary accessory structures and buildings associated with farming and   related agricultural activities subject to Article VII section 6.00, except that the  side and rear shall be at least 50 feet.
2.
Farms, as defined in section 2.01 of Article IV, and subject to section 10.00 of  Article VII, except no temporary sawmills or chippers or booths or farm stands  shall be allowed and the minimum lot size required in paragraph 12.
Of section  10.00 Article VII shall be three (3) acres.
3.
Stables, Private  4.
Hobby Farms, as defined in section 2.01 of Article IV and subject to Section 2.00   of Article VIII.
B  Residential Uses     1.
Detached Single‐Family Residences as defined in section 2.02 of Article IV, subject  to the provisions of section 1.04 herein.
2.
Non‐Commercial Greenhouses and Gardens.
3.
Private Swimming Pools, subject to Article VII, section 11.00.
4.
Private Tennis Courts, subject to Article VIII, section 11.00  5.
Residential Accessory Structures and Buildings, subject to Article VII, section 6.00.
6.
Satellite Dish Antennas, subject to Article VI, section 7.00.
C  Institutional Uses     1.
Clubs  2.
Country Clubs  3.
Parks  4.
Places of Worship  5.
Public Buildings  6.
Public Utility Services  7.
Schools          Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 46 of 139  D  Commercial Uses     1.
Studios     E    Temporary Uses     1.
Garage Sales or Yard Sales subject to Article VII, §9.0     1.03   Special Exception Uses     The following uses may be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See  Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, sections 1.00, 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Agricultural Uses     1.
Farm Support Business  2.
Livestock Sales  3.
Stables, Commercial  4.
Animal Hospitals     B.
Institutional Uses     1.
Animal Shelters  2.
Cemeteries, subject to Article VIII, section 8.00  3.
Public Utility Facilities     C.  Commercial Uses     1.
Day Care Homes  2.
Home Occupations, subject to Article VIII, section 9.00  3.
Special Events     1.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations    Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional  regulations shall be required:      Minimum Lot Size: 3.0 Acres*      Minimum Lot Width at the Building Line: 150 Feet**      Minimum Yard Setbacks:  Front: 75 Feet***            Rear:  75 Feet***            Side:  50 Feet (on each side) ***      Maximum Height of Structures: 35 feet or 2 ½ stories       Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 47 of 139      Minimum Livable Floor Space Area in Square Feet: ****        One story: 2000 square feet   Two or more stories: 1600 sq.
feet on first floor and minimum total of 2000 sq.
feet     *For all parcels of record that were less than 3.0 acres on May 15, 2006, as  recorded in the Probate Court of the county in which the property is located, the  minimum lot size shall be the parcel size.
After May 15, 2006, a larger parcel may  only be divided into less than 3.0 acre lots when such division is not considered to  be a subdivision pursuant to Alabama law such as the testate conveyance of more  than one part of a parcel of land to issue for homestead purposes.
** The minimum lot width at the building line for those lots less than 3.0 acres may  be reduced by the Planning Commission to a minimum of 85 feet.
In determining  the appropriate lot width at the building line, the Planning Commission shall  consider the size, shape, dimensions, and other relevant factors of the lot being  considered.
*** The minimum yard setbacks for those lots less than 3.0 acres may be reduced  by the Planning Commission to a minimum of 40 feet front se back, 45 feet rear set  back, and 15 feet of the lot being considered.
**** Provide that if a single‐family residence in existence on May 15, 2006 is  destroyed by fire or natural disaster, another single‐family residence of the same  size or larger may be rebuilt in the same location.
1.05  Public Buildings     All public buildings shall have a front yard setback of fifty feet (50’).
In all other  residential districts, where permitted, public buildings shall have: a rear yard of thirty‐five  feet (35’), a side yard of thirty‐five feet (35’), a maximum height of forty‐five feet (45’), a  maximum building area of fifty percent (50%) of the lot.
1.06  Buffer Requirements:     As described in the Buffer Matrix and in § 1.5 of this Section.
The Planning Commission or the  Zoning Board of Adjustment may require additional buffer supplements.
1.07  Additional Regulations (When Applicable)       See subsection 1.02 of this Article; and, in Article III, Definitions.
A. Fowl and Livestock shall conform with the following provisions:       Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 48 of 139  1.
Horses, cows, sheep goats, and swine shall be housed not less than one hundred and fifty  feet (150’) from any use permitted in any residential or business zone district, other than  the owner’s residence, with at least 15,000 square feet of lot area for each animal.
2.
Fowl, rabbits and other small animals shall be housed not less than one hundred feet  (100’) from any use permitted in any residential or business zone, other than the  residence of the owner, with a maximum of twenty (40) such fowl or animals for every  seven thousands (43,560) square feet.
B  1.
Administrative and Review Procedures, Article III.
2.
Definitions, Article IV.
3.
General Regulations, Article V.    4.
Supplemental Regulations, Article VII.
5.
Special Exception Uses, Article VIII.
6.
Off‐Street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX.
7.
Sign Regulations, Article X.
[END A‐1, AGRICULTURE DISTRICT]                                                                 Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 49 of 139  § 2.00    E‐1 Single Family Residential Estate District     2.01 Intent    To provide exclusive areas for low density detached single‐family residences, along  with selected institutional and commercial uses that are integrally related to  residential neighborhoods.
2.02 Uses Permitted     The following uses shall be permitted in the E‐1 Residential Estate District.
Similar  uses to those listed below may also be permitted subject to Article III, Administration  and Review Procedures, subsection 2.11, Interpretation of Uses and subsection 2.12,  unclassified use.
A.
Agricultural Uses     1.
Non‐commercial Greenhouses and Gardens     B.
Residential Uses     1.
Detached Single‐Family Residences  2.
Accessory Structures and Buildings, subject to Article VII § 6.00.
3.
Private Swimming Pools, subject to Article VII, § 11.00.
4.
Private Tennis Courts, subject to Article VIII, § 11.00.
5.
Satellite Dish      C. Institutional Uses     1.
Public Utility Services     D. Temporary Uses     1.
Garage Sales or Yard Sales, subject to Article VII, § 9.0/     2.03 Special Exception Uses:     The following uses may be permitted, subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to the appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Agricultural Uses     1.
Commercial Greenhouses and Gardens       B.
Institutional Uses.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 50 of 139  1.
Community Centers/Civic Center  2.
Country Clubs  3.
Parks  4.
Places Of Worship  5.
Public Buildings, subject to subsection 1.06 of this section.
6.
Public Utility Facilities  7.
Schools     C. Commercial Uses     1.
Day Care Homes  2.
Home Occupations, subject to Article VIII, § 9.0.
2.04 Area and Dimensional Regulations:     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following  area and dimensional regulations shall be required.
Minimum Lot Area:      1.0 Acre          Minimum Lot Width        At Building Line:      150 Feet          Minimum Yard Setbacks:            Front:      75 Feet          Rear:      75 Feet          Side:      25 Feet*          *Total Both Sides  50 Feet          Maximum Height of    35 Feet or        Structures:      2 ½ Stories          Minimum Floor Area In        Square Feet:      2,500          Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on streets, roads and highways.
2.05 Public Buildings     As described in Article VI, subsection 1.06     2.06 Buffer Requirements     As described in the Buffer Matrix and in subsection 1.05.of this Article.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 51 of 139    2.07 Additional Regulations (When  Applicable)     [END OF E‐1, SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ESTATE DISTRICT]                                                                                              Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 52 of 139    § 3.00 E‐2 Single Family Residential Estate District     3.01 Intent     To provide exclusive areas for low density detached single‐family residences,  along with selected institutional and commercial uses that are integrally  related to residential neighborhoods.
3.02 Uses Permitted     The following uses shall be permitted in the E‐2 Single Family Estate  Residential District.
Similar uses to those listed below may also be permitted  subject to Article III, Administration and Review Procedures, subsection 2.11,  Interpretation of Uses and subsection 2.12, Unclassified Uses.
A.
Agricultural Uses     1.
Non‐Commercial Greenhouses and Gardens     B.
Residential Uses     1.
Detaches Single‐Family Residences  2.
Accessory Buildings and Structures, subject to Article VII, § 6.00.
3.
Private Swimming Pools, subject to Article VII, § 11.00.
C. Institutional Uses     1.
Public Utility Services     D. Temporary Uses     1.
Garage Sales or Yard Sales, subject to Article VII, § 9.00.
3.03       Special Exception Uses     The following uses may be permitted, subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to the appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See  Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Institutional Uses     1.
Community Centers/Civic Center  2.
Country Clubs  3.
Parks  4.
Places of Worship  5.
Public Buildings, subject to subsection 1.06 of this Article.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 53 of 139  6.
Public Utility Facility  7.
Schools     B.
Commercial Uses     1.
Day Care Homes  2.
Home Occupations, subject to Article VIII, § 9.00.
C. Agriculture     None     3.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be required:         Minimum Lot Area:    ½ Acre        Minimum Lot Width      At Building Line:    120 Feet        Minimum Yard Setbacks:        Front      50 Feet      Rear:      50 Feet      Side:      15 Feet*       *Total Both Sides:  30 Feet      Maximum Height of     Structures:      35 Feet or 2 ½ Stories      Minimum Livable Floor    One Story ‐ 1,500    Area in Square Feet:    Two Story ‐ 1,200            Second Story – 300            Total ‐           1,500       Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on streets, roads, or highways     3.05 Public Buildings         As described in subsection 1.06 of this Article.
3.06 Buffer Requirements      As described in the Buffer Matrix and in subsection 1.5 of this Article.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 54 of 139      3.07 Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        [END OF E‐2, SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ESTATE DISTRICT]     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 55 of 139  § 4.00 R‐1 Single Family Residential District      4.01 Intent     To provide areas for medium density, detached, single family residences, along with  selected institutional and commercial uses that are integrally related to residential  neighborhoods.
4.02 Uses Permitted     The following uses shall be permitted in the R‐1 single‐family residential district.
Similar  uses to those listed below may also be permitted subject to article III, Administration and  Review Procedures, subsection 2.11, Interpretation of Uses and subsection 2.12,  Unclassified Uses.
A.
Agricultural Uses     1.
Non‐Commercial Greenhouse and Gardens     B.
Residential Uses     1.
Detached Single – Family Residences  2.
Accessory Structures and Buildings, subject to Article VII, §6.00.
3.
Private Swimming Pools, subject to Article VII, § 11.00.
C. Institutional Uses     1.
Public Utility Services    D. Temporary Uses     1.
Garage Sales, subject to Article VII, § 9.00.
E. Commercial Uses     1.
Home Occupations, subject to Article VIII, § 9.00.
4.03 Special Exception Uses.
The following uses may be permitted subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See  Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.02 and 1.02.
A.
Agriculture     None     B.
Institutional Uses     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 56 of 139  1.
Clubs  2.
Community Centers/Civic Center  3.
Country Clubs  4.
Parks  5.
Places of Worship  6.
Public Buildings, subject to subsection 1.06 of this Article.
7.
Public Utility Facilities  8.
Schools     C. Commercial Uses     2.
Day Care Homes  3.
Bed and Breakfast Inns, subject to Article VIII, § 14.00.
4.04   Area and Dimensional Regulations       Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be required:    Minimum Lot Area:      15,000 Square Feet    Minimum Lot Width at  Building Line:        100 Feet    Minimum Yards:    Front:        35 Feet    Rear:        40 Feet    Side:        15 Feet*    *Total Both Sides:    30 Feet      Maximum Height of Structures:  35 Feet or 2 ½ Stories        Minimum Livable Floor Area in    Square Feet:      1,400    Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on streets, roads and highways.
4.05  Buffer Requirements          As described in the Buffer Matrix and in subsection 1.5 of this Article.
4.06    Additional Regulations (When Applicable)    As described in subsection 1.08, (B) of this Article.
[END OF R‐1, SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT]     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 57 of 139  § 5.00  R‐2 Single Family Residential District      5.01 Intent     To provide areas suitable for medium density single‐family residence along with selected  institutional and commercial uses that are integrally related to residential  neighborhoods.
5.02 Uses Permitted     The following uses shall be permitted in the R‐2 Single Family Residential District.
Similar  uses to those listed below may be permitted subject to Article VIII Administration and  Review Procedures, subsection 2.11, Interpretation of uses and subsection 2.12,  Unclassified Uses.
A.
Agricultural Uses     1.
Non‐Commercial Greenhouses and Gardens     B.
Residential Uses     1.
Detached Single – Family Residences  2.
Accessory Structures and Buildings, subject to Article VII, § 6/00.
3.
Private Swimming Pools, subject to Article VII, § 11.00.
C   Institutional Uses     1.
Public Utility Services    D   Temporary Uses.
1.
Garage Sales, subject to Article VII, § 9.00.
F. Commercial Uses     1.
Home Occupations, subject to Article VIII, § 9.00.
5.03  Special Exception Uses     The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See  Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Agriculture     None     B.
Institutional Uses     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 58 of 139    1.
Clubs  2.
Community Centers/Civic Center  3.
Country Clubs  4.
Parks  5.
Places of Worship  6.
Public Buildings  7.
Public Utility Facilities  8.
Schools     C.  Commercial Uses     1.
Day Care Homes   2.
Bed and Breakfast Inns, subject to Article VIII, § 14.00        5.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be required:         Minimum Lot Width at      Building Line:        85 Feet        Minimum Lot Area per Family    10,500 Square Feet        Minimum Yards:          Front:    30 Feet        Rear:    35 Feet        Side:    10 Feet*        *Total both sides: 20 Feet        Maximum Height of Structures:    35 Feet or 2 ½ Stories        Minimum Livable Floor Area      Per Square Feet:      1,200      Corner Lots: Setbacks shall the same on streets, roads and highways.
5.05 Public Buildings     As described in subsection 1.06 of this Article.
5.06  Buffer Requirements          As described in the Buffer Matrix and in subsection 1.5 of this Article.
5.07  Additional Regulations.
(When Applicable)     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 59 of 139    As described in subsection 1.08 (B) of this Article.
[END OF R‐2, SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT]     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 60 of 139   6.00  R‐3 Multi‐Family Residential District      6.01  Intent     To provide areas suitable for the development of single‐family residences, duplexes and  multi‐family dwellings, along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are  integrally related to the residential neighborhood.
6.02  Uses Permitted     The following uses shall be permitted in the R‐3 Multi‐Family Residential District.
Similar  uses may also be permitted subject to Article III, Administration end Review Procedures,  subsection   2.11, Interpretation of Uses, and subsection 2.1.2, Unclassified Uses.
A.
Agriculture Uses     1.
Non‐Commercial Greenhouses and Gardens     B.
Residential Uses     1.
Detached Single‐Family Residences  2.
Duplexes  3.
Multi‐Family Dwellings (Apartments)  4.
Accessory Structures and Buildings, subject to Article VIII, § 6.00  5.
Private Swimming Pools, subject to Article VII, § 11.00.
C. Institutional Uses     1.
Group Care Homes  2.
Public Utility Services     6.03  Special Exception Uses     The following uses may also be permitted subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and the appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See Article VIII,  Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Institutional Uses     1.
Community Centers/Civic Centers  2.
Country Clubs  3.
Places of Worship  4.
Public Buildings  5.
Public Utility Facilities  6.
Schools  7.
Nursing Care Facility     B.
Commercial Uses     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 61 of 139    1.
Boarding House  2.
Day Care Center  3.
Clinic  4.
Home Occupations, subject to Article VIII, § 9.00.
6.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be required:       **Minimum Lot Area:    10,000 Square Feet for Multi‐Family Units            7,500 Square Feet for Detached Single‐Family Units      Minimum Livable Floor    Area:        One bedroom Multi‐Family Unit, 735 Square Feet            Two bedroom Multi‐Family Unit, 1,008 Square Feet            Three bedroom Multi‐Family Unit, 1,386 Square Feet            Duplexes (two family units) 2,200 Square Feet       Minimum Yards:        Front:      35 Feet      Rear:      35 Feet      Side:      10 Feet*      *Total Both Sides.
Maximum Height    35 Feet     Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on both streets and highways.
In case sanitary sewers  are not available to serve the proposed development, the minimum lot size (square footage)  required by the County Health Department shall be met.
6.05   Buffer Requirements      As described in the Buffer Matrix and in subsection 1.05 of this Article 6.06.
6.06  Additional Regulation Where Applicably      As described in subsection 1.08 of this Article.
[END OF R‐3, MULTI‐FAMILY DISTRICT]               Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 62 of 139  §7.00  R‐3‐T Townhouse Residential District      7.01  Intent         To provide areas suitable for Townhouse Residential Dwellings     7.02  Uses Permitted       Due to the unique nature of the townhouse development and small lot sizes, no other  use other than townhouse dwellings is permitted.
7.03  Area and Dimensional Regulations         Minimum Lot width at      Building Line:      20 Feet        Dwelling Units Per      Gross Tract Acre:    7 DU        *Minimum Yards:          Front:      25 Feet**          Rear:      30 Feet          Side:      0 Feet        Maximum Height of Structures:    35 Feet or 1 ½ Stories      **  Thirty (30) feet if front parking is provided.
Minimum Livable Floor Area      In Square Feet:        1,200 Total       Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on streets, roads or highways.
Note:  A site development plan is required for a Townhouse Development as described in Article  III, subsection 2.01.
7.04  Buffer Requirements         As described in the Buffet Matrix and in subsection 1.05 of this Article.
7.05    Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        As described in subsection 1.08 (B) of this Article.
[END R‐3‐T, TOWNHOUSE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT]         Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 63 of 139  §8.00    R‐5 Garden Home Residential District      8.01  Intent     To provide areas suitable for the development of residential garden homes along with  selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential  neighborhoods.
8.02  Uses Permitted         The following uses shall be permitted in the R‐5 Garden Home District:     A.
Agricultural Uses     1.
Non‐Commercial Greenhouses and Gardens     B.
Residential Uses     1.
Residential Garden Homes  2.
Accessory Structures and Buildings, subject to Article VII, § 6.00.
C. Institutional Uses     1.
Home Instruction  2.
Public Utility Services     D. Temporary Uses     1.
Garage of Yard Sales, subject to Article VII, § 9.00.
8.03  Special Exception Uses     The following uses may be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and the appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See Article VIII, Special  Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Commercial Uses     1.
Home Occupations, subject to Article VIII, § 9.00.
8.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be required:        Minimum Lot Width at      The Building Line:      60 Feet       Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 64 of 139     Minimum Lot Area:      6,000 Square Feet      Minimum Yards:                   Front        20 Feet        Rear:        30 Feet        Side:         5 Feet       Maximum Height      38 Feet or 2 ½ Stories       Minimum Livable Floor      Area in Square Feet:  One Story – 1,200 Total            One and One‐Half Story – 800 First Floor            Second Floor – 400 for total of 1,200            Two Story – First Floor – 700            Two Story – Second Floor – 700 for total of 1,400      Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on streets, roads, or highways.
Note:  A Site Development Plan is required for all garden home developments as per Article           subsection 2.02.
8.05  Buffer Requirements        As described in the Buffer Matrix and subsection 1.05 of this Article.
8.06      8.06      Additional Regulations     1.
No fence shall be permitted forward of the front building face of the house, other  fences shall not exceed seven (7) feet in height.
2.
No two homes constructed in this district shall be closer to one another than fifteen  (15) feet.
3.
All utilities shall be placed underground.
4.
There shall be two (2) paved parking spaces provided for each dwelling, the depth of   which shall be measured from the back of the curb.
Twenty percent (20%) of the  parking shall be dedicated to landscaping.
There shall be no off‐street parking along  existing interior streets.
5.
Customary accessory buildings or structures, one (1) per lot, shall not exceed two  hundred (200) square feet.
[END OF R‐5, GARDEN HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT]              Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 65 of 139  §9.00    R‐6 Patio Home Residential District     9.01  Intent     To provide areas suitable for Patio Homes along with accessory structures customarily  associated with such development.
9.02  Uses Permitted     A.
Residential Uses     1.
Patio Homes  2.
Accessory Structures and Buildings provided they are located in the rear yard   only.
B    Institutional Uses     1.
Public Utility Service     9.03  Special Exception Uses     The following uses may be permitted subject to approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See  Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02     A.
Commercial Uses     1.
Home Occupations, subject to Article VIII, §9.00.
B.
Temporary Uses     1.
Garage or Yard Sales, subject to Article VII, §9.00     9.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be required:     Minimum Lot Width at The  Building Line:        40 Feet    Minimum Lot Area:      4,000 Square Feet    Minimum Yards:        Front:    20 Feet      Rear:    20 Feet      Side:    10 Feet*     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 66 of 139    *Total for both sides, twenty (20) feet.
Maximum Height of Structures: 35 Feet or 2 ½ Stories        Minimum Livable Floor Space Area      In Square Feet:      1,100 Total       Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on streets, roads, and highways.
A Site Development Plan is required for each Patio Home Development as outlined in Article A  subsection 2.02.
9.05  Buffer Requirements        As described in the Buffer Matrix and in subsection 7.05 of this Article.
9.06  Additional Regulations     1.
To permit zero feet (0’) lot line development, one side yard may be reduced to zero  feet, provided a five foot (5’) easement of maintenance is reserved on the adjoining  lot and buildings are separated by at least ten feet (10’) and the adjoining lot is  reserved for a patio home.
2.
No homes constructed in this District shall be connected.
3.
The required ten foot side yard shall be kept perpetually free of permanent   obstructions, accessory structures, walls and fences without gates.
4.
Privacy fences or walls may be placed on or along any lot lines provided that such   fences or walls are not constructed in a manner so as to block any local lot drainage  and provide gates or other openings are provided that will not restrict access for fire  protection.
An eight‐foot maximum height limit will be permitted for privacy fences  or walls located on or along any required side or rear yard.
5.
Each Patio Home shall have on its own lot one (1) yard not less than five hundred and  twenty‐five (525) square feet, reasonably secluded from view of streets or  neighboring property.
6.
The exterior walls of the Patio Home, or any accessory structures located on the zero  foot side yard setback shall not project over the property line.
Roof overhangs may  penetrate maintenance and drainage easement of the adjacent lot a maximum of  thirty (30) inches, provided the roof shall be so designed that water runoff shall be  restricted to the drainage easement area.
7.
No windows, doors or other openings shall be permitted on the zero foot sideline of  any Patio Home unit.
8.
A perpetual drainage easement shall be provided between homes in this District and  shall be approved by the City Engineer.
Walls and fences may be located on or along  this easement provided gates or other openings are provided which will not block  local drainage and maintenance.
9.
Any subdivision developed in an R‐6 District shall be on a tract of land not less than 5  acres of land.
10.
A foundation survey shall be required to insure against encroachment.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 67 of 139  [END OF R‐6, PATIO HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT]                                                                                         Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 68 of 139  §10.00  RMHP Residential Manufactured (Mobile) Home Park District      10.01  Intent     To provide areas for Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Developments, free from other  uses which are incompatible with the character and intent of this district.
10.02   Uses Permitted     A.
Residential Uses     1.
Manufactured (Mobile) Home Parks  2.
Residential accessory structures and buildings, subject to park policy.
3.
Home Occupation, Home Instruction and Day Care Homes, all subject to   established park policy concerning such uses.
B.
Institutional Uses     1.
Management Office  2.
Recreational Facilities designed to serve the residents of the parks along with   their guests.
C. Commercial Uses     1.
Retail convenience sales for residents of the park and their guests.
2.
Service facilities, such as Laundromat, household storage buildings, refuse   collection areas, and similar common service facilities designed and intended to  serve only the residents of the park and their guests.
10.03  Site Standards         A Site Plan shall be prepared and submitted for each manufactured/mobile home park:     A.
The minimum site area shall be ten (10) contiguous acres, with access to a public  street and fronts upon a dedicated street of not less than fifty feet (50’).
B.
Each manufactured home lot shall have a minimum area of five thousand (5,000)  square feet and a minimum width of fifty feet (50’) at the front lot line.
C. Each manufactured/mobile home lot shall be set back a minimum of thirty‐five  feet (35’) from any park boundary line and ten (10) feet from any other lot line.
D. Minimum Yard Setbacks:     Front:      25 Feet*  Rear:      10 Feet  Side:      10 Feet       Road not dedicated – 50 feet from the centerline.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 69 of 139  E. No manufactured/mobile home may be located closer than twenty feet (20’)  from another, on an adjacent lot.
F. The maximum density shall be six (6) manufactured/mobile homes per gross  tract acre.
(If not served by public water and sewer, a lower density may be  required by the County Health Department).
G. All the street lighting within the development shall be installed and maintained  by the developer or the property owners.
H. The location of all fire hydrants shall be coordinated with the City of Leeds Fire  Department and City Engineer.
I.
All manufactured/mobile home park developments shall be provided with  open/recreational space(s) measuring a minimum area of one hundred (100)  square feet per manufactured/mobile home.
Such spaces shall be consolidated  into usable recreational areas.
J. Garage or Yard Sales may be permitted, subject to manufactured/mobile home  park policy.
If no such policy exists, then such shall be subject to the provisions  of Article VII, § 9.00.
10.04  Installation     All manufactured/mobile homes shall be installed according to all the requirements of  federal, state or local codes: and, these shall be completely skirted, with a weather  resistant material, within thirty (30) days from the date the home is moved into the park.
Such weather resistant material(s), as chosen by the owner or contractor.
Should be  painted or coated with some kind of outdoor water resistant paint or primer.
The choice  of color should be one, or more, that blends with the color(s) or the color‐scheme of the  Manufactured/Mobile home.
Any loud or severely contrasting color should be avoided  to eliminate the possibility of creating an eye sore.
The earth tones and neutral colors  are often good choices that lend harmony.
All skirting shall be adequately vented.
10.05  Storage Facilities, Accessory Uses and Structures     A maximum of one hundred (100) square feet of storage area shall be provided for each  space.
Alternatively, park management may provide common storage lockers at an  equivalent capacity.
The permitted accessory structures on manufactured/mobile home  spaces shall include all accessory structures permitted on the lots of single‐family  residences, except for private below ground swimming pools and satellite dish antennas.
Any accessory use shall not be permitted closer than five feet (5’) from the rear and side  boundaries of each space.
Carports may be permitted in the front yard but shall not be  permitted within (5’) of the front building line.
Carports shall not be permitted within  five feet (5’) of the rear and side boundaries of each space and twenty‐five feet (25’)  from the front lot lines; and, in the case of a corner lot, twenty‐five feet (25’) from the lot  lines adjacent to a street.
10.06  Off‐Street Parking and Streets     Two‐way private, paved streets (maintained by the park management) shall be   constructed to provide access to all manufactured/mobile home spaces, within the park.
These streets shall be in conformance with the street standards of the City of Leeds.
No     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 70 of 139  manufactured/mobile home shall have its own access to a public street.
All dead‐end  streets shall have turnarounds in conformance with the City’s street standards.
Each  manufactured/mobile home shall have two (2) paved, off‐street parking spaces.
The  location of all driveways shall be shown on the required Site Plan and approved by the  City of Leeds Planning Commission.
10.07  Service Facilities     Common recreational facilities and Laundromats shall be provided for the use of the  residents and their guests only.
All garbage/refuse collection facilities, with demarcated  collection points, shall be the responsibility of park management.
10.08  Buffer Requirements     The proposed development shall be designed, based upon a layout plan with  architectural elements and appropriate landscaping.
An adequate buffer, as described in  the Buffer Matrix, landscaped and up‐kept by the park management shall be maintained  around the entire park.
This buffer strip shall have no buildings or structures, of any kind,  erected or maintained on it.
(Refer to subsection 1.05 of this Article and Article VII,  Supplemental Regulations, § 13.00.
10.09  Signs      All signs shall conform to the provisions of Article X.
10.10  Landscaping     All the yards shall be permanently landscaped and maintained with ground cover, trees  and shrubs.
10.11  Patios     Each manufactured/mobile home should be provided with a deck or patio at least two  hundred (200) square feet.
10.12  Fences        Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article VII, § 4.00.
[END OF RMHP, RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTORE HOME PARK DISTRICT]             Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 71 of 139  §11.00  RMHS  Residential Manufactured (MOBILE) Home Subdivisions District      11.01  Intent       To develop Manufactured (Mobile) Home Subdivisions, free from other uses that are  incompatible with the character and intent of this district.
11.02  Uses Permitted        The following uses are permitted:     A.
Residential Uses     1.
Detached Single Family occupied Manufactured/Mobile Homes located on  individually owned lots.
2.
Customary Accessory Buildings and Structures permitted in other detached  single‐family residential districts subject to the same requirements.
3.
Non‐Commercial Greenhouse and Gardens     B.
Commercial Uses     1.
Home Occupations, subject to Article VIII, § 9.00.
C. Temporary Uses     1.
Garage or Yard Sales, subject to Article VII, § 9.00.
The proposed development  shall be designed, based upon a layout plan with architectural elements and  appropriate landscaping.
An adequate buffer as described in the Buffer Matrix,  landscaped and up‐kept by the park management.
11.03  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be required:         Minimum Lot Area:      7,500 Square Feet [15,000 Square Feet if                Septic tank and field lines are required]        Minimum Lot Width:      50 Feet from the Building Line        Minimum Yards:                  Front:      35 Feet*          Rear:      35 Feet          Side:      10 Feet        *Road not dedicated – 60 feet (60’) from the centerline.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 72 of 139      Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on both streets and roads.
11.04  Manufactured (Mobile) Home Standards     A.
The minimum floor area shall be five hundred (500) square feet.
B.
Two (2) off‐street parking spaces shall be provided for each home.
All streets and   parking spaces shall conform to the standards established in the City of Leeds  Subdivision Regulations.
C. All homes shall be installed according to all requirements of federal, state or local  codes.
These shall be adequately vented and completely skirted, with weather  resistant material, within thirty (30) days from the date the home is moved on a lot.
11.05  Procedure for Plat Approval     The layout plans for all manufactured/mobile home subdivisions shall reflect the seal of  an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer or Land Surveyor and submitted to the City  of Leeds Planning Commission for review and approval of construction.
This site plan  shall include the following:     A.
Area and dimensions of the overall site.
B.
Number of lots, including the dimensions and layout of all lots.
C. Assessment of drainage conditions by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer.
D. Location, size and proposed layout of all utilities.
E. Street plan, including all off‐street parking.
F. Assessment of traffic conditions, including any proposed measures needed to rectify   problems where they exist.
G. Location and type of all street lighting.
H. Location of all fire hydrants.
11.06  Additional Regulations     A.
All manufactured/mobile homes shall be individually owned.
B.
The subdivision shall be in full compliance with all the applicable provisions of the   Leeds Subdivision Regulations.
C. All access points shall be controlled through the review of the site plans submitted to   the City of Leeds Planning Commission on each manufactured/mobile home  subdivision plat.
D. The subdivision shall be served by water, sanitary sewer and adequate drainage  facilities; and such plans shall be submitted to the City Building Inspector, the City  Engineer and the Planning Commission for review.
E. The need for buffers shall be determined during the site plan review process and the  type and width of buffers shall be determined on an individual basis by the Planning  Commission.
11.07  Buffer Requirements      As described in the Buffer Matrix and subsection 1.05 of this Article.
[END OF RMHS, RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTORED HOME SUBDIVISION DISTRICT]    Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 73 of 139  §12.00    0‐1 Office Building District      12.01  Intent     To provide areas suitable for office and professional buildings, along with selected  commercial and institutional uses which are deemed to be compatible with the  professional office environment.
12.02  Uses Permitted     The following uses shall be permitted in the 0‐1 Office Building District.
Similar uses to  those listed below may also be permitted subject to Article III, Administration and Review  Procedures, subsections 2.11 Interpretation of Uses and subsection 2.12, Unclassified  Uses.
A.
Commercial Uses     1.
Banks or Financial Services  2. Business of Professional Offices *  3. Business Support Service  4.
Commercial Parking  5.
Commercial Schools  6.
Personal Services     Office buildings exceeding 2,500 square feet in area may use up to ten percent (10%)  of such space for commercial and personal service oriented activities.
B.
Institutional Uses.
1.
Public Utility Service     12.03  Special Exception Uses     The following uses may also be permitted subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See  Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Commercial Uses     1.
Broadcast Studios  2.
Clinics  3.
Day Care Centers  4.
Funeral Homes  5.
Nursing Care facilities, subject to Article VIII, § 5.00.
6.
Restaurants, Fast Food, subject to Article VIII, §5.00.
7.
Restaurants, Standard  8.
Studios  9.
Special Events     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 74 of 139    B.
Institutional Uses     1.
Public Buildings  2.
Public Utility Facilities  3.
Places of Worship  4.
Parks  5.
Schools     12.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be observed:     Minimum Lot Size:  None specified; although lots shall be of adequate width   and size to accommodate the proposed use along with  adequate parking, buffers (where required) and any  service and storage areas.
Minimum Yards:            Front:    35 Feet          Rear:    35 Feet*          Side:    35 Feet**        Corner Lots:  Shall have the same setbacks on both streets and roads.
*  Rear yard may be reduced to fifteen feet (15’) if the adjoining property is zoned  commercial or light industrial.
** If the adjoining property is zoned commercial or light industrial, interior side yard  setbacks may be reduced to zero feet (0’), provided that all portions of the side of the  structure are enclosed with a fire proof wall of four (4) hour construction, without any  openings on such wall.
If the structure is not built to the side lot line, a minimum setback  of at least ten feet (10’) shall be maintained.
12.05  Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        See Section 1.08 (B) of this Article; and,     A. Rear Yard may be reduced to fifteen (15’) if the adjoining property is zoned  commercial or light industrial.
B.
If the adjoining property is zoned commercial or light industrial, interior side yard  setbacks may be reduced to zero feet (0’), provided that all portions of the side of the  structure are enclosed with a fireproof wall of four (4) hour fire construction, without  any openings on such wall.
If the structure is not built to the side lot line, a minimum  setback of a least ten feet (10’) shall be maintained.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 75 of 139    12.06  Public Buildings         Refer to subsection 1.06 of this Article.
12.07  Buffer Requirements        As described in the Buffer Matrix and subsection 1.05 of this Article      12.08  Additional Requirements (When Applicable)        See Section 1.08 (B) this Article; and,     A  Each primary establishment located in the B‐1 Neighborhood Business District  shall have a service yard (or yards) adequate for handling waste and garbage and  the unloading of vehicles.
Such service yard(s) shall be paved, have access to a  public street or alley, and be located on the rear or side of the primary structure.
B  No exterior lighting fixture, including lighting for parking areas, walkways,   general illumination or any other purposes [except signs] shall exceed twenty‐ five feet (25’) in height measured from the ground and shall be constructed and  placed in such a manner so as to direct the beam of light away from any adjacent  areas.
[END 0‐1, OFFICE BUILDING DISTRICT]    Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 76 of 139  §13.00    B‐2  General Business District      13.01  Intent     To establish and preserve a retail business district convenient to the public which is  suitable for a wide range of retail and service areas usually found along major streets and  thoroughfares and downtown areas.
13.02  Uses Permitted     The following uses shall be permitted in the B‐2 General Business District.
Similar uses to  those listed below may also be permitted subject to Article III, Administration and Review  Procedures, subsection 2.11, Interpretation of Uses and subsection 2.12, Unclassified  Uses.
A  Commercial Uses     1.
Bakeries, Minor  2.
Banks and Financial Institutions  3. Business or Professional Offices  4. Business Support Services  5.
Clinics  6.
Schools, Commercial  7.
Convenience Stores  8.
Day Care Centers  9.
Entertainment, Indoor  10.
General Retail, Indoor  11.
Grocery Stores/Supermarkets  12.
Home Improvement Centers  13.
Personal Services  14.
Printing Establishments, Minor  15.
Restaurants, Standard  16.
Studios  17.
Vehicle Repair, Minor  18.
New Vehicle Sales or Rental  19.
Any use permitted in District R‐3, subject to the same requirements.
B  Institutional Uses     1.
Public Utility Services     13.03  Special Exception Uses     The following uses may also be permitted subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See Article VIII,  Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.02 and 1.02.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 77 of 139  A.
Commercial Uses     1.
Animal hospitals, no outside kennels or runs shall be permitted  2.
Car Washes  3.
Funeral Homes  4.
Gasoline Service stations, subject to Article VIII, § 34.00.
5.
General Retail, Unenclosed  6.
Hotels or motels, including Restaurant and/or Liquor Lounge as incidental   uses.
7.
Liquor Lounge, free standing  8.
Restaurants, Fast Food, subject to Article VIII, § 5.00.
9.
Shopping Centers, subject to Article VIII, § 3.00  10.
Repair Garages, See Article IV, Definitions  11.
Payday Loan  12.
Car Title Loan  13.
Gold and Silver Brokers  14.
Tattoo parlor  15.
Pawn shop  16.
Vape shop  17.
Tobacco Shop  18.
Used Automobile Sales  19.
Self‐Storage Facilities  20.
Special Events     B.
Institutional Uses     1.
Community Centers/Civic Centers  2.
Hospitals  3.
Parks  4.
Places of Worship  5.
Public Buildings  6.
Public Utility Facilities  7.
Schools     13.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional  regulations shall apply:     Minimum Lot Size: None specified, although lots shall be of adequate width and size to  accommodate the proposed as well as provide adequate space with for required parking,  buffers, (where required) and any service and storage areas.
Minimum Lot Width: None specified, although lots shall be of adequate width to  accommodate the proposed use as well as provide adequate space for required parking,  buffers (where required) storage and service yards.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 78 of 139        Maximum Height:  65 feet or 5 Stories     Minimum Yards:  None, except on the rear of a lot abutting any residential district  in which case there shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
13.05  Buffer Requirements       As described in the Buffer Matrix and subsection 1.05 of this Article.
13.06  Additional Regulations (When Applicable) See      Section 1.08 (B) of this Article; and,     A.
Each primary establishment located in the B‐2 General Business District shall have a  service yard (or yards) adequate for handling waste and garbage and the loading and  unloading of vehicles.
Such service yard (s) shall be paved, have access to a public street  or alley, and be located on the rear or side of the primary structure.
B.
No exterior lighting fixture, including parking areas, walkways, general illumination or any  other purposes [except signs], shall exceed twenty‐five feet (25’) in height as measured  from the ground and shall be constructed and placed in such a manner so as to direct the  beam of light away from any adjacent areas        [END B‐2, GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT]     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 79 of 139  §14.00        B‐3 Tourist Commercial District        14.01  Intent     This district shall contain a wide range of commercial establishments, lodging  accommodations, vehicle sales/service; amusement/recreation uses and selected  office/institutional uses, on sites with a high degree of visibility to the travelling public.
14.02  Uses Permitted          The following uses shall be permitted in the B‐3 Tourist Commercial District.
Similar uses to those listed below may be permitted subject to Article III, Administration  and Review Procedures, subsection 2.11, Interpretation of Uses and subsection 2.12,  Unclassified Uses.
A.
Commercial Uses     1.
Entertainment, Indoor  2.
Gasoline Service Stations, subject to Article VIII, § 4.00.
3.
General Retail, Enclosed  4.
Offices and Professional Buildings  5.
Personal Services  6.
Restaurants, Standard  7.
Restaurants, Fast Food, subject to Article VIII, § 5.00.
8.
Grocery Stores/Supermarkets  9.
Convenience Stores  10.
Vehicle Sales or Rental     B.
Institutional Uses     1.
Public Utility Services     14.03    Special Exception Uses     The following uses may also be permitted subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See  Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Commercial Uses     1.
Campgrounds  2.
General Retail, Unenclosed  3.
Hotels or Motels  4.
Truck Stops  5.
Mini‐Warehouses, subject to Article VIII, §10.00.
6.
Shopping Centers, subject to Article VIII, § 3.00.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 80 of 139  7.
Manufactured (Mobile) Home Sales  8.
Vehicle and Equipment Sales, Major  9.
Repair Garage, Minor and Major, See Article IV, Definitions.
10.
Recreation  11.
Rent‐All Establishment  12.
Special Events     B.
Institutional Uses     1.
Parks  2.
Public Buildings, subject to subsection 1.06 (B) of this Article.
3.
Public Utility Facilities     14.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be required:         Minimum Lot Size:      The same as B‐2, General Business District        Minimum Lot Width:      The same as B‐2, General Business        District Minimum Yard Setbacks;            Front:      35 Feet          Rear:      35 Feet          Side:      15 Feet        Maximum Height:      45 Feet        Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on both streets and roads.
14.05  Buffer Requirements        As described in the Buffer Matrix and subsection 1.05 of this Article.
14.06  Additional Regulations (When Applicable)        See Section 1.08, (B) of this Article; and,     A.
Each primary establishment located in the B‐3 Tourist Commercial District shall have  a service yard (or yards) adequate for handling waste and garbage and the loading  and unloading of vehicles.
Such service yard(s) shall be paved, have access to a  public street or alley and be located on the rear or side of the primary structure.
B.
No exterior lighting fixture, including parking areas, walkways, general illumination or  any other purpose (except signs), shall exceed twenty‐five feet (25’) in height,  measured from the ground to the highest point on the lighting fixture, All light     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 81 of 139  fixtures shall be constructed and placed in a manner so as to direct the beam of light  away from adjacent areas.
[END OF B‐3, TOURIST COMMERCIAL DISTRICT]             Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 82 of 139  §15.00        I‐1         Light Industrial District      15.01  Intent     This district consists of areas where limited industrial uses are permitted.
The district  encourages employment centers with a large degree of environmental impact.
Principal  industrial activities include light manufacturing, industrial services, warehousing,  wholesaling, and distribution services, as well as administrative and office facilities  related to uses permitted and selected commercial uses consistent with the light  industrial environment.
15.02  Uses Permitted     A.
Industrial Uses     1.
Construction Services  2.
Industrial Parks, subject to Article VIII, § 12.00.
3.
Industry, Light  4.
Maintenance Services  5.
Research Facilities  6.
Truck Terminals  7.
Vehicle and equipment sales, Major  8.
Warehousing, wholesaling and Distribution.
See Article IV, subsection 2.05,   Definitions.
9.
Industrial Park, subject to Article VIII,      B.
Commercial Uses     1.
Animal   2.
Bakeries, Minor  3. Business Support Services  4. Business or Professional Offices  5.
Farm Support Business  6.
Garage, Repair  7.
Gasoline Service Stations, subject to Article VIII, § 4.00  8.
General Retail, Unenclosed  9.
Home Improvement Centers  10.
Self‐Storage Facilities, subject to Article VIII, § 10.00.
11.
Printing Establishment, Minor  12.
Transmission Towers, (Commercial) subject to Article VIII, § 13.00.
13.
Vehicle Repairs, Both Minor and Major, See Article IV, Definitions.
C. Institutional Uses     1.
Public Utility Services            Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 83 of 139  15.03  Special Exception Uses       The following uses may be permitted upon approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment  and further subject to appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See Article VIII,  Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Commercial Uses     1.
Airports, including heliports  2.
Kennels  3.
Special Events     B.
Institutional Uses     1.
Animal Shelters  2.
Cemeteries  3.
Military Installations  4.
Parks  5.
Pet Cemeteries  6.
Public Buildings  7.
Public Utility Facilities     15.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  dimensional regulations shall be observed:    Minimum Lot Size: None specified, although lots shall be of adequate width and size to  accommodate the proposed as well as provide adequate space with for required parking,  buffers, (where required) and any service and storage areas.
Minimum Lot Width: None specified, although lots shall be of adequate width to  accommodate the proposed use as well as provide adequate space for required parking,  buffers (where required) storage and service yards.
Minimum Yards:        Front:      15 Feet      Rear:      35 Feet *      Side:      35 Feet**      Maximum Building Height: 3 Stories or 45 Feet    Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on streets, roads and highways.
* Rear Yard may be reduced to fifteen feet (if the adjoining property is zoned industrial.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 84 of 139  ** If the adjoining property is zoned industrial, interior side yard setbacks may be  reduced to zero feet (0’), provided that all portions of the side of the structure are  enclosed with an un‐pierced firewall in compliance with City Building Codes.
In addition,  if the structure is not built to the side lot line, a minimum setback of at least fifteen feet  (15’) shall be maintained.
15.05  Buffer Requirements       As described in the Buffer Matrix and subsection 1.05 of this Article.
15.06  Additional Regulations (When Applicable)      See Section 1.08 (B) of this Article, plus:     1.
Any outside storage, material storage yards, etc.
shall be screened to an adequate height so  as to conceal the contents from public view.
[END OF I‐1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT]             Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 85 of 139  §16.00    I‐2 Heavy Industrial District      16.01  Intent     To provide areas where heavy industrial uses are permitted.
This district encourages  employment centers where a potentially moderate to high degree of environmental  impact uses can be located, including light and heavy industrial and manufacturing  activities.
16.02  Uses Permitted       A.
Industrial Uses     1.
Bakeries, Major  2.
Industrial Parks, subject to Article VIII, § 12.00.
3.
Industries, Light  4.
Manufacturing, General  5.
Printing Establishment, Major  6.
Warehousing, wholesaling, and distribution     B.
Institutional Uses     1.
Public Utility Services     16.03  Special Exception Uses     The following uses may be permitted, subject to approval of the Zoning Board of  Adjustment and further subject to the appropriate permits being issued by the City.
See  Article VIII, Special Exception Uses, § 1.00 and subsections 1.01 and 1.02.
A.
Industrial Uses     1.
Industries, Heavy  2.
Recycling Plants  3.
Salvage Yards  4.
Sanitary Landfills  5.
Special Events     B.
Commercial Uses     1.
Animal Hospitals  2.
Public Utility Facilities       16.04  Area and Dimensional Regulations     Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the area and dimensional  regulations listed below shall be observed:        Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 86 of 139      Minimum Lot Size:    Same as the I‐1, Light Industrial District        Minimum Lot Width:    Same as the I‐1, Light Industrial District        Minimum Yards:     Front:  None specified.
The Planning Commission shall determine  the appropriate setback requirement during the site plan  review process.
Rear:             Same as front requirement above.
Side:             Same as front requirement above.
Corner Lots:  Setbacks shall be the same on streets, roads and highways.
16.05  Buffer Requirements        See § 1.00, subsection 1.05 of this Article.
16.06  Additional Regulations (When Applicable)     1.
Any outside storage, material yards, etc.
areas shall be screened to an adequate  height to conceal the contents from public view.
[END OF I‐2, HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT]         Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 87 of 139  § 17.00   MR Municipal Reserve District      17.01  Intent     This district serves as an interim zone for areas annexed into the City.
The MR District  seeks to protect these newly annexed areas until such time as comprehensive city zoning  can be applied to them.
17.02  Zoning of Annexed Areas     On the effective date of annexation, all newly annexed property shall be zoned MR  Municipal Reserve District.
17.03  Rezoning From the MR District     Following the City Council’s adoption of the annexation, the Planning Commission shall  initiate proceedings to rezone property from the MR District to any other district  contained within this Ordinance.
In determining the most appropriate zone(s), the  Planning Commission shall duly consider the following items, among others:     A.
The Comprehensive Plan or a study of the annexed area(s).
B.
The desires of the property owners in the area(s) subject to zoning.
C. The purposes and considerations of zoning as contained in this Ordinance as well as   the Code of Alabama, 1975, § 11‐52‐72 and as it may be amended.
17.04  Permitted Uses and Development Standards     All uses in existence at the time of annexation may lawfully continue under the  provisions of the MR District.
However, all proposed new uses, on property that is  currently zoned MR Municipal Reserve District, shall be brought to the City Planning  Commission for review and final approval.
Until such time as the City zoning is assigned,  all applications shall be subject to the uses permitted in the zone or zones assigned to the  subject property along with all criteria and requirements.
17.05  Action on Annexation Petitions     All annexation Ordinances enacted by the City of Leeds shall include the provision that  the property shall be temporarily zoned MR, Municipal Reserve District.
A copy of the  annexation Ordinance shall be made available to the City Building Inspector and the  Planning Commission for action.
17.06  Additional Regulations (When Applicable)            As described in the Buffer Matrix.
[END OF MR, MUNICIPAL RESERVE DISTRICT]     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 88 of 139  §  18.00 Planned Community Development District (PCD)   18.01 Intent   The intent of the Planned Community Development District (PCD) is to encourage the  master planning of mixed use development for larger tracts of land and to coordinate  such development as to manage the impacts of development on the provision of city  services and infrastructure, to facilitate planning, design, and development of master  planned communities that will preserve and protect natural resources and mitigate  negative environmental effects through use of innovative development techniques that  will permit flexible patterns of compatible land uses and densities, and to provide for the  consideration of any land uses not otherwise specified elsewhere in the Leeds Zoning  Ordinance.
The PCD district encourages imaginative uses of open space, promotes higher  standards in design and construction, and furthers the purposes of the Leeds City Master  Plan.
Further, it is the intent of this district to:   A.
Permit flexible and imaginative design to accommodate planned associations of uses  developed as integral land use units that allow for and encourage large scale master  planning of commercial, light industrial, and residential uses in both exclusive use areas  and town center forms of development which may incorporate a vertical mix of  commercial and residential uses.
B.
Permit a variety of uses, building forms, building relationships, and architectural styles,  while promoting preservation and enhancement of existing natural landscape features.
C.  Establish Specific Development Standards that may permit a variety of development  types and densities offset by conservation of natural resources as well as undisturbed and  developed open space, and to establish development criteria that will govern  development of the PCD and may deviate from other development regulations of the  City, upon the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter  referred to as “the Commission,” of the Master Development Plan and final approval by  the City Council.
D.  Upon approval of the Master Development Plan by the City Council, provide the  developer with reasonable assurance of ultimate approval while at the same time  providing City officials with reasonable assurance that the development will be  undertaken in the manner described in the approved Master Development Plan.
E.  Permit the consideration of planned land use districts consisting of Planned Detached and  Attached Dwellings (PR1), Planned Multiple Dwellings (PR2), Planned Commercial (PC),  and Planned Industrial (PI) allowing the land uses as set forth in this Section 19.00.
18.02  Procedure;  Application Requirements   A.  Pre‐Application.
The owner(s) or the duly appointed representative(s) of a tract(s) of land     Shall  submit a preliminary PCD application  to  the Building  Inspector.
Within  thirty  (30)   days after submission, the Commission shall conduct a pre‐application conference, which  may  be  at  a  regular  or  special  called  meeting.
The  intent  of  the  pre‐application  conference  is to provide an opportunity for the Commission and City Staff to meet with  the applicant and       Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 89 of 139  discuss  the preliminary application and provide  comments  to  the developer.
While  the  conference shall be a public meeting, it shall not be a public hearing.
The Building  Inspector  shall notify  the  applicant  in writing of  any  comments  from  city  officials  within  fifteen  (15)  business  days  after  the  pre‐application  conference.
No  comments to the applicant by the Commission or City staff shall be considered a denial or  approval of the preliminary application or part thereof.
B.
Review by the Planning Commission.
The PCD application shall be reviewed as an  amendment to the zoning ordinance and map as stipulated in Article III, Sections 7.00 and  8.00 of this Zoning Ordinance, except as otherwise provided herein.
After the pre‐application conference, the applicant shall submit to the Building Inspector  a complete PCD application in the form of a Master Development Plan and Specific  Development Standards in compliance with the requirements of this Section 19.00  together with the fee as prescribed in the City Fee Schedule.
The City shall determine if  the application is complete within five (5) working days after receipt thereof.
The City  Clerk shall not schedule the public hearing before the Commission until the City  determines that a complete application has been submitted.
Upon the applicant’s submission to the City of a complete application, the Building  Inspector shall refer the application to the Commission and shall set a public hearing  within thirty (30) days thereafter at a regular or special called meeting of the  Commission.
The Commission shall have sixty (60) days, from the date of its public hearing on said  application, to submit a report on the application to the City Council.
If the Commission  fails to submit a report within said sixty (60) day period, and unless the applicant agrees  in writing to an extension of said period, the Commission’s report to the City Council shall  be deemed to have approved the PCD application.
C.  City Council Approval.
The application and the report of the Commission shall be  submitted to the City Council for approval.
Approval of the PCD Application including the Master Development Plan by the City  Council shall not constitute acceptance or approval of future plat submissions.
Approval  and adoption of the Master Development Plan by the City Council shall constitute an  amendment to the City of Leeds Master Plan and zoning map.
Under no circumstances  shall an applicant be granted development approval before a Master Development Plan is  approved.
Approval of the PCD application by the City Council shall include approval of the Specific  Development Standards, which may be permitted to deviate from the Zoning Ordinance  and Subdivision Regulations, and which shall govern development in the PCD.
The  applicable section of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations in effect as of the  date of approval of the PCD shall apply only in those matters that the Specific  Development Standards do not address.
Under no circumstances shall an applicant be  granted development approval before Specific Development Standards are approved.
D.          Application.
The Master Development Plan and Specific Development Standards shall  include the following written statements and any maps necessary to show the following  information:   1.
A vicinity map of appropriate scale, which shows  the boundaries of  the  property in relation to the surrounding area.
2.
A legal description of the total site subject to the proposed PCD zoning.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 90 of 139  3.
A PCD District map at an appropriate  scale  that  shows  the direction of  north and the locations of the PCD land use districts.
4.
An environmental features map that shows 100‐year regulatory  floodplains and floodways, streams and other bodies of water, other  significant natural features and the topography of the property at a  minimum of 10‐foot intervals.
5.
Planning objectives for the PCD outlining how the planned community  development will accomplish objectives not otherwise attainable through  the conventional zoning districts of the city.
6.
A  conceptual  street  and  pedestrian  circulation  plan  illustrating  the  locations  of  existing  streets  to  remain  and  the  general  location  of  proposed collector and arterial streets.
7.
Development  objectives  and  strategies  that  include  a  conceptual  open  space  plan  for  the  PCD  that  create  an  open  space  and  pedestrian  circulation  network  and  provide  a  conceptual  plan  for  the  location  of  undisturbed and open space areas.
8.
Environmental  Objectives,  Strategies,  and  Performance  Standards  for  conservation, management, alteration, and treatment of:  a. USGS blue‐line streams and associated riparian buffers.
b.
Slopes, including slope stability.
c. Flood‐prone areas.
d. Storm water management and erosion control.
e. Reforestation  and  conservation  of  existing  forests  and wooded   areas.
9.
Proposed  protective  and/or  restrictive  covenants,  conditions,  and   charters, if any.
10.
A statement and any plans regarding any proposed security points for the   control of access from public streets.
11.
The  locations  of  existing  and  proposed  utilities  and  any  provisions  or   plans  to provide  adequate utilities  to  serve  the development  including  water and sewer and others.
12.
A traffic study that quantifies the impact of the PCD.
13.
Specific Development Standards that detail the following:      Specific Development Standards     Attached and  Detached  Dwellings     Multiple Dwellings  Commercial,  Institutional &  Industrial   Lot Width  x       Floor Area  x  x     Buffers    x  x  Building Height      x  x   Landscaping      x  x   Accessory Uses & Structures  x  x  x   Building Setbacks  x  x  x     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 91 of 139  Signs      x  x   Vehicular Parking  x  x  x   Tree Canopy  x  x       14.
A quantitative description of the proposed PCD District in its entirety that  summarizes the acreage for each type of land use, the maximum  number of anticipated residential dwelling units by type of dwelling, and  the location of all proposed public/community facilities and other lands  dedicated for public purposes, in each of the individual PCD land use  districts.
15.
A conceptual development schedule in five‐year increments that projects   the number of dwelling units to be constructed.
The  Specific Development  Standards  shall  reflect,  to  the  greatest extent possible,  the policies,  regulations, and ordinances of the City while allowing the flexibility required to achieve the intent  of the PCD.
19.03 Development Regulations      A.
Minimum  land  area  for  the establishment of  a PCD  shall be  five hundred  (500)  contiguous acres.
B.
At  least  ten  (10)  percent  of  the  gross  acreage  of  the  PCD  shall  be  left  as  undisturbed  open  space,  preserved  in  its  natural  state  except  for  clearing  of  diseased vegetation and  invasive species, and  the clearing of underbrush  for  the  installation of walkways and trails.
Neither existing water surface area nor streets  shall be included in the undisturbed open space calculation.
An additional fifteen (15) percent or more of the gross acreage of the PCD shall be  devoted to developed open space and shall be distributed throughout the PCD in  relation to the dwelling units of the residents they are intended to serve.
The minimum dimension of all open space areas shall be  fifty  (50)  linear  feet  in  order to qualify.
All such undisturbed open space and developed open space may  be  included  in the computation of density within any applicable  land use district  within the PCD.
C.  All off‐street parking areas  in excess of eight  thousand  (8,000)  square  feet  shall  contain  landscaped  islands that comprise at  least ten (10) percent of the parking  area and the perimeter of the parking area shall be separated from adjacent public  rights‐of‐way  by  a  perimeter  planting  of  at  least  fifteen  (15)  feet  in  width.
Required  landscaped areas may be used to attain storm water  infiltration  if such  practices meet  landscaping standards of the approved Master Development Plan  and Specific Development Standards.
D.  The  layout of  the  street network and design of  internal  streets  shall provide  for  connectivity, context‐sensitive design and multi‐modal accessibility.
E.  Low  Impact  Development/Green  Infrastructure  Storm  water  management  practices  shall  be  considered,  among  other  methods  for  storm  water  management.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 92 of 139  18.04  Planned Detached and Attached Dwelling District (PR1)     A.
Intent.
To  provide  flexibility  in  the  development  of  attached  and  detached  dwellings and other uses compatible with the neighborhood.
B.  Density.
Maximum overall  residential gross density  shall not exceed  three  (3.0)  dwelling units per acre of the total aggregate gross area of the PR1 Districts of the  PCD,  although  specific  portions  of  one  or more  PR1  Districts may  exceed  this  overall maximum density.
C.  Permitted Uses.
1.
Attached and Detached Dwellings   2.
Golf courses  3.
Home occupations   4.
Residential information offices/sales pavilions, trailers and sales centers   (including model homes)  5.
Parks, playgrounds, ball fields, swimming pools, tennis courts, equestrian   areas and related uses, open spaces, passive recreation areas and similar  recreation uses   6.
Neighborhood recycling collection point within a Neighborhood  Convenience Retail and Service area   7.
Public and private utility service uses  8.
Accessory structures associated with any uses listed above    D.  Conditional Uses.
1.
Amphitheaters  2.
Assisted and independent living facilities (together with ancillary   neighborhood, retail, service and office uses customarily found in such  facilities)   3.
Day care facilities  4.
Multiple dwellings  5.
Municipal/civic uses  6.
Neighborhood Convenience Retail and Service Uses, including fitness     centers  7.
Places of worship  8.
Modular wastewater treatment facilities  9.
Public and private schools  10.
Community meeting centers  11.
Museums; libraries; art galleries and other similar uses    E.  Special Exception Uses    Communications towers     Electric power substations     18.05  Planned Multiple Dwelling District (PR2)     A.
Intent.
To provide areas  for apartments and other uses compatible with a high‐    density residential environment.
B.  Density.
Maximum  overall  residential  gross  density  shall  not  exceed  eight  (8)  dwelling units per acre of the total aggregate gross area of the PR2 Districts of the  PCD,     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 93 of 139  C.          Permitted Uses  1.
Multiple dwellings and accessory uses   2.
All Permitted and Conditional Uses allowed in PR1 District   D.  Conditional Uses  1.
Modular wastewater treatment facilities  E.  Special Exception Uses  1.
Communications towers  2.
Electric power substations     18.06  Planned Commercial District (PC)     A.
Intent.
To provide areas for mixed residential, retail commercial and service uses  compatible with community and regional shopping districts.
B.  Density.
The  maximum  percentage  of  impervious  surfaces  shall  not  exceed   seventy‐five (75) percent for each lot or parcel or each group of lots and parcels  developed as a unified development site, with the exception of a Town Center, in  which  the maximum percentage of  impervious surfaces shall not exceed ninety  (90) percent.
Sites with impervious surfaces in excess of eighty (80) percent may  employ  storm water practices  at  the margins  that  capture  and  infiltrate  storm  water.
C.  Permitted Uses  (which may  be mixed  horizontally  and/or  vertically within  the  same physical structure).
Retail, office, service and residential uses, including but not limited to:  1.
Assisted living facilities  2.
Auto dealerships  3.
Auto parts store  4.
Bakery, where all baked goods are sold on the premises  5.
Banks and other lending institutions  6.
Barber or beauty shops  7.
Commercial recreation, entertainment and amusement facilities  8.
Convenience stores  9.
Copy and business service centers  10.
Day care centers  11.
Department stores  12.
Domestic equipment rental  13.
Drug stores  14.
Dry cleaning outlets  15.
Flex Buildings   16.
Furniture stores  17.
Gasoline service stations  18.
Grocery stores  19.
Home improvement centers  20.
Hospitals  21.
Minor auto repair  22.
Motels or hotels  23.
Motion picture theatres     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 94 of 139  24.
Multi‐story, Attached Dwellings  25.
Multiple dwellings located above the first floor of a building  26.
Neighborhood service facilities   27.
Nursery  28.
Nursing homes  29.
Office buildings  30.
Parks, playgrounds, ball fields, swimming pools, tennis courts, open      spaces, passive recreation areas and similar recreation uses  31.
Professional offices occupied by physicians, dentists, surgeons, attorneys,   architects, engineers and other similar professions  32.
Private Clubs  33.
Places of worship  34.
Public and private schools  35.
Public buildings  36.
Radio and TV stations (no antennas)  37.
Recycling collection point  38.
Regional shopping malls  39.
Restaurants  40.
Retail outlet centers  41.
Schools  42.
Self‐service storage facilities  43.
Shopping centers  44.
Town Centers  45.
Veterinary clinics  46.
Public utility service and accessory structures associated with any uses   listed above.
47.
Other similar commercial uses that would be compatible with any uses   listed above     D.  Conditional Uses  1.
Modular wastewater treatment facilities     E.  Special Exception Uses  1.
Electric power substations  2.
Communications towers  3.
Special Events     18.07  Planned Industrial District (PI)     A.
Intent.
To provide areas for storage, distribution and light manufacturing.
B.  Density.
Maximum percentage of  impervious surfaces shall not exceed seventy‐  five (75) percent of the total gross area of the PI Districts of the PCD.
C.  Permitted Uses.
1.
Bakery  2.
Bottling plant  3.
Flex buildings     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 95 of 139  4.
Contractor storage yards  5.
Dry Cleaning Plants  6.
Farm and heavy machinery and equipment sales  7.
Janitorial and maintenance service  8.
Laundry and dry cleaning plants  9.
Light industrial, fabricating, processing, assembling and manufacturing uses  10.
Major auto repair  11.
Parks, playgrounds, ball fields, swimming pools, tennis courts, open spaces,   passive recreation areas and similar recreation uses  12.
Printing establishments  13.
Recycling centers  14.
Woodworking shops  15.
Warehouse/distribution facilities  16.
Water or liquid storage tanks   17.
All Permitted Uses and Conditional Uses (other than Attached or Detached   Dwellings or Multiple Dwellings) allowed in the PC District.
D.  Conditional Uses  1.
Modular wastewater treatment facilities     E.  Special Exception Uses.
1.
Communications towers    2.
Electric power substations  3.
Wastewater treatment plants  4.
Special Events     18.08 Amendments     A.
It  is  the  intent  to  provide  for  flexibility  in  the  development  of  the  approved Master  Development Plan, and  to allow minor changes  in  the approved Master Development  Plan  without  any  additional  approvals.
Accordingly,  additional  approvals  shall  be  required only for major changes as defined herein.
Any changes in the approved Master  Development Plan (including major changes, minor changes or any variances) requested  by any party other  than  the developer must be approved  in writing by  the developer  prior to any action being taken by the City.
B.
Major  change.
A  "major  change"  in  the approved Master Development Plan  shall be  defined as:     1.
A  change  in  the  Conceptual Open  Space  Plan  or  a  change  in  land  use  district  boundaries;  except  minor  changes  necessary  to  align  the  boundaries  with  final  locations  of  roads  and  other  rights‐of‐way,  topographic  features  and  similar  adjustments  that  could  not  be  anticipated at the time of approval based upon preliminary data.
2.
Addition of adjacent property in any amount to the approved PCD.
3.
Any addition to the number of dwelling units to the approved PCD.
4.
Any change to the Specific Development Standards of the approved PCD.
C.  Whenever the developer of the PCD and the owner of the subject property shall request  a major  change  in  the  approved Master  Development  Plan  or  Specific  Development     Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 96 of 139  Standards,  the developer  shall  file an application  for change  that shall be  reviewed  in  accordance with the provisions of Subsections 15.02.B‐C.
D.  Any  other  changes  shall  be  considered  "minor  changes"  and  shall  not  require  any  additional approvals, other  than  the plat approval  that  shall be obtained  through  the  typical plat approval procedures of the City.
18.09 Zoning Amendments     No amendment or modification of  this Zoning Ordinance or the city’s Subdivision Regulations,  other than mandated by  federal or state  law, shall be effective as to any PCD approval  issued  prior to such amendment or modification,  it being  intended that the PCD shall continue to be  developed in accordance with the zoning ordinance and subdivision regulations in effect at the  time of such approval of the PCD, subject to the approved Master Development Plan or Specific  Development Standards.
18.10 Building Permits      A.
The City  shall only  issue building permits after  the architectural  control  committee of  the PCD has approved the plans and a copy of the approval is submitted to the City, as  applicable.
B.
Conditional Uses.
Prior to the issuance of a building permit, all uses listed as Conditional  Uses in Subsections 19.04 through 19.07 herein shall require a public hearing before the  Commission and approval by the City Council in accordance with the following:   1.
A  minimum  of  thirty  (30)  days  prior  to  the  regularly  scheduled  Commission meeting  at which  the  conditional use  is  to be  considered,  the applicant shall submit to the Building Inspector:  a.
The  name,  address  and  signature  of  the  property  owner  and   agent of the property owner, if any;  b.
The address of the property under consideration;  c. The approved PCD land use district designation and existing land   use, if any, of the concerned property;  d. The proposed Conditional Use;  e. A vicinity map showing the location of the subject property;  f. A  site  plan,  drawn  at  appropriate  scale,  showing  the  property   boundaries  and  site  layout,  including  property  dimensions,  rights‐of‐way,  easements,  existing  and  proposed  structures  and  their  uses,  setbacks,  off‐street  parking  and  loading,  circulation,  screening,  buffers  and  landscaping,  existing  and  proposed  topography, property lines, parking and loading areas and points  of ingress and egress;   g. The names and addresses of adjacent property owners as shown  on the most recent records of the County's Tax Assessor's Office:  and   h. A fee as prescribed in the City Fee Schedule.
2.
Notice shall be given as prescribed in Article 5, Section 5.
Article VI – ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 97 of 139  3.
Upon  receipt  of  the  Commission’s  recommendation  regarding  the  conditional  use,  the  City  Clerk  shall  schedule  and  advertise  the  conditional use for a public hearing before the City Council.
4.
Limit  on  Re‐hearing.
When  the  City  Council  denies  a  conditional  use  request, the Commission shall not consider the same request for a period  of six (6) months.
D. Special Exception Uses.
Prior to the  issuance of a building permit, all uses  listed as  Special Exception Uses  in Subsections 19.04 through 19.07 herein shall be reviewed  and approved in accordance with Article III, Section 6.00 of this Zoning Ordinance.
18.11 Architectural Review Committee   The Architectural Review Committee, if applicable, shall consist of one member of the Planning  and Zoning Commission, one member of the Inspection Services staff and three public members,  at least one shall be a business or property owner located in the PCD.
18.12 Commitments, Conditions, or Surety    Surety shall be posted in accordance with City of Leeds Subdivision regulations        [END OF PCD, PLANNED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT]                         Article VII – SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 98 of 139  ARTICLE VII     SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS     §1.00    Area Modification for Lots of Record     The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall approve all proposed development involving non‐ conforming lots of record.
[See Article V, § 6.00 and subsection 6.01.]
§2.00    General Yard Requirements     A.
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed by any structure   or part thereof and unoccupied for storage, servicing or similar uses, except as  provided for herein.
B.
More than one (1) multiple dwelling, office, institutional, industrial or public  buildings may be located upon a lot or tract of land, but such dwellings shall not  encroach upon the front, side or rear yards required by the district regulations in  which located.
2.01  Front Yard Modifications     A.
If forty percent (40%) or more land area of a site, on the same side of a street  between two intersecting streets, is being developed or will be developed in the  future, then the following rules shall apply.
In the event the existence of a building  or buildings, the front yard requirements of the district in concern may or may not be  met.
If the existing front yards of such buildings shall not be erected closer to the  street than that distance established by taking the average front yard depths of the  existing dwellings.
B.
Where forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage on one (1) side of a street  between two (2) intersecting streets is presently developed or may hereafter be  developed with buildings that do not have a front yard as described in A, the  following shall apply:     1.
Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is within one hundred   feet (100’) of an existing building on both sides, the minimum front yard shall be  the line drawn between the closest front corners of the adjacent buildings.
2.
Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is within one hundred  feet (100’) of an existing building on one (1) side only, such building may be  erected as close to the street as the existing building.
C. Through lots shall provide the required front yard on both streets.
D. Corner lots shall provide a front yard on each street.
Article VII – SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 99 of 139  2.02  Rear Yard Modifications     Where a lot abuts an alley, one‐half (1/2) of the alley width may be considered as part of  the required rear yard.
§ 3.00    Height Modifications     A.
Any limitation on the height shall not apply to the buildings used exclusively for   storage purposes, provided such buildings do not exceed the height in feet permitted  in the district in which they are located.
B.
All chimneys, cooling towers, elevators, bulkheads, fire towers, gas tanks, steeples,  penthouses, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental  towers and spires, wireless, television or radio towers or necessary mechanical  appurtenances, where permitted, may be erected to any height not in conflict with  existing or hereafter adopted ordinances of the City of Leeds.
Where permitted, in  connection with residential uses, such structures shall be limited to a height of  twenty‐five feet (25’) above the average height of structures in that district.
§ 4.00    Fences and Walls     A.
No fence shall be allowed beyond the front yard setback line in any single‐family   residential district.
B.
The height requirements in any single‐family residential zone shall be as follows:     1.
Fences constructed on a side or rear yard lot line or behind the required front   yard, as set forth elsewhere in these regulations shall not exceed a height of six  and one‐half feet (6’ 6”) as measured from the topmost point of the fence to the  ground or surface along the center line of the fence.
C. The following types of fences are permitted in residential districts: masonry walls,   ornamental (iron), woven wire (chain link), wood or other man‐made materials and  hedges.
D. The following type of fences are prohibited:  any fence carrying electric current, any  fence that utilizes spikes, barb wire or other pointed materials in its construction  capable of easily inflicting wounds to persons coming in contact with the fence.
E. When warranted, these fence types listed as prohibited above may be permitted in  the A‐1 District, as well in the I‐1 Light Industrial District and the I‐2 Heavy Industrial  District.
F. On any corner lots, no fence of any material shall be permitted to encroach a  required thirty‐five foot building line setback that would hinder site distance for  motorists or pedestrians.
No fence, split‐rail fence, hedge or any type of planting,  including ornamental, shall be placed or constructed in any location that would  hinder access to fire hydrants.
G. The following exceptions should be noted relative to fences, walls and hedges:     1.
Fences used for guard railings, around depressed ramps, along the tops of  retaining walls, along driveways and adjacent to residential sidewalks, are not to     Article VII – SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 100 of 139  exceed forty‐two inches (43”) in height.
[See illustrations of typical fence and/or  wall configurations below.]
H. For non‐residential districts, all fence construction shall be subject to site plan   approval, with no height or setback restrictions (s), except those deemed necessary  and reasonable by the Leeds Planning Commission, unless otherwise stipulated  elsewhere in this Ordinance.
[See Special Exception Uses in Article VIII.
§5.00  Porches, Terraces, Balconies, Cornices and Eaves     A. Sills or ornamental features of a structure may project into any required yard no   more than six inches (6”).
B. Cornices or eaves may project into any required yard no more than twenty‐four   inches (24”).
C. Terraces, unenclosed porches, underground fallout shelters or ornamental features   (Which are constructed as part of a single family or two‐family dwelling) may project  into a required yard, provided such projections are not closer than thirty feet (30’)  from the front lot line and twenty‐five feet (25’) from the back lot line.
The said  terraces, porches, shelters and ornamental features (when constructed as part of a  multi‐family dwelling) may not exceed a maximum of five feet (5’) into the required  side yards.
D. In single‐family and two‐family residential zones, an unenclosed balcony, deck, porch  or fire escape may project into a required rear yard, provided such structures are  located not closer than twenty‐five feet (25’) from the rear property line and ten feet  (10’) from either side property lines.
E. In multi‐family residential districts, an unenclosed balcony, porch, deck or fire escape  may project into a required rear yard for a distance not to exceed twelve feet (12’)  and may project into a required side yard for a distance not to exceed eight feet (8’);  but, in no instance, shall any property line in which a buffer is required as a means of  separating incompatible land uses.
§ 6.00    Accessory Buildings and Structures     A. Non‐residential accessory structures and buildings, up to twelve feet (12’) in height,   shall be permitted within five feet (5’) of any side or rear property line; but, such  structures shall not occupy any portion of the front yard.
All accessory buildings  above twelve feet (12’) in height shall be set back one additional foot (1’) for each  four feet (4’) in height above twelve feet (12’) up to the maximum height limitation  of the district in which located.
B.
All non‐residential accessory buildings and structures shall be constructed of  materials that are compatible with other buildings in the district in which they are  located in order to insure that the aesthetic value and appearance of the  neighborhood is maintained.
C. The residential accessory buildings, attached and detached carports and garages on  residential lots, in the E‐1, E‐2, R‐1, R‐2, R‐3, R‐3‐T, R‐5, R‐6, PCD, RMHP, and RMHS  districts, shall meet the following requirements:        Article VII – SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 101 of 139  1.
The maximum floor area shall be twenty‐five percent (25%) of the habitable floor  area of the principal building.
2.
The maximum height shall not exceed the height of the principal building.
3.
Such structures and additions shall be subject to the front yard requirements of   the district in concern.
4.
All detached accessory structures shall be constructed in the rear yard, but shall   be located no closer than five feet (5’) from the property line.
5.
All accessory structures shall be constructed of materials that are compatible   with other buildings in the district in which they are located in order to insure the  aesthetic value and appearance of the neighborhood is maintained.
6.
Accessory structures shall not be built prior to the construction of the primary  structure.
Such structures shall not be used for non‐residential purposes, which  are not normally incidental to residential use.
7.
All electrical power service to the accessory buildings on residential lots shall  originate from the main power service at the main building.
8.
Attached accessory buildings and structures, such as carports and garages, may  be built in the side yard but they must conform to the side setbacks for the  district in which they are located.
§7.00    Temporary Structures and Building Material Storage       Temporary buildings may be permitted for the storage of materials connected with  construction projects.
Such buildings may also be permitted as temporary.
§ 8.00    Garage or Yard Sale     A. Garage or yard sales, on the same lot, shall not be conducted for more than three (3)   days (whether consecutive or not) during any 90‐day period.
B.
All posters and/or signs, display tables, stands, racks, etc., shall be removed   immediately after such sale by the person or persons conducting the garage or yard  sale and such items shall be stored inside an enclosed building or screened from  public view while sales are not in progress.
§9.00    Farms     A.
The minimum land area for a farm shall be five (5) acres.
B.
The following farming activities shall be permitted:     1.
Forage and sod crops.
2.
Grain and seed crops.
3.
Dairy animals and products.
4.
Livestock, such as: beef cattle, swine, sheep, goats, or any similar livestock;   including the breeding and raising of such animals but excluding commercial  meat processing operations.
5.
Poultry, including egg production but excluding commercial poultry processing  operations.
Article VII – SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 102 of 139  6.
Nursery operations involving the raising of: plants, shrubs and trees for sale and  transportation, including: greenhouses and the incidental sale of items  associated with a nursery operation.
7.
Bees and apiary products.
8.
Fisheries, excluding commercial fish processing operations.
9.
Fruit and vegetables of all kinds, including the growing and harvesting of such   fruit and vegetables, but excluding commercial food processing operations.
10.
In the A‐1 Agriculture Districts, the minimum setback of livestock barns,   commercial chicken houses, (fowl) houses from adjoining property lines shall be  one hundred feet (100’); from highway (road) right‐of‐way lines, it shall be three  hundred feet (300’) provided however, that no livestock barn or chicken houses  shall be built closer that three hundred feet (300’) to nearest then existing  residence other than that of the owner.
Swine (hogs) shall be housed, fed and  watered not nearer than one hundred feet to any adjoining property line or  within three hundred feet (300’) of any street or road right‐of‐way.
(Unless  otherwise stipulated elsewhere).
11.
All temporary sawmills and chippers (used in connection with timber cutting  operations) shall be set back at least two hundred feet (200’) from any lot line.
12.
Non‐farm related single‐family residences and subdivisions are permitted,  provided that the recording of lots in this district contains a minimum of one‐half  (1/2) acre and is in compliance with the City of Leeds Subdivision Regulations.
Applicants should also be apprised of the fact that a two (2) acre minimum lot is  required for a hobby farm, in case the intent is to utilize the lot for that purpose.
C  A booth or farm stall/farm stand, for the purpose of selling farm produce, grown   on the same premises, shall be permitted, subject to the following:     1.
The sales areas shall be set back from all lot lines so as to meet the district  yard requirements.
2.
The sales areas shall not occupy any part of a required off‐street parking or  loading area.
D  All incidental structures and activities commonly associated with a farm may   include: barns, silos, animal pens, loading and unloading platforms, chutes, or  other accessory uses.
§10.00    Private Swimming Pools     A.
Where permitted, private swimming pools shall comply with the following   requirements:     1.
Permanent swimming pools, which are wholly or partially above ground level,  shall be located in the rear yard of a single or two‐family residential district and  no closer than twenty‐five feet (25’) from any property line.
No mechanical  appurtenance shall be located within ten feet (10’) of any property line.
2.
Private Swimming Pools Constructed Below Grade Level Shall Be:       Article VII – SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 103 of 139  a.
Located including mechanical appurtenances, no closer than ten feet (10’)  from any property line.
b.
Enclosed at the time of construction by a fence of not less than five feet (5’)  in height (measured from ground level to the highest point on the fence).
All  fences and gates shall be constructed of such materials so as to prevent  unauthorized entry by persons or household pets.
The gates shall be  provided with permanent self‐latching devises to be kept locked at all times  when the pool is not in use.
c. Aboveground pools shall be subject to the requirements of local codes.
d. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be constructed to direct the beam of light   below the horizontal plane of the fixture, reflecting away from any adjacent  property.
Said fixtures may not extend higher than twenty‐five feet (25’)  In height.
e. Swimming pools for multi‐family and commercial uses shall meet the  minimum standards deemed appropriate by the Leeds Building Inspection  Department upon review of each specific proposal.
§ 11.00   Buffers    11.01   General Requirements for Buffers/Screening       A.
The specifications for buffers shall follow the Buffer Matrix or as deemed by the  Leeds Planning Commission or as specified during the review of the site development  plan.
The following criteria shall also be met:     1.
If a natural barrier is specified as a buffer, such shall be a planting strip, planted   to provide a visually impervious barrier uniformly dense at all heights from the  ground up, which would attain a height of at least four feet (4’) within one (1) full  growing season.
2.
All buffers shall provide adequate plant cover (trees, shrubs, etc.)
3.
All planting strips shall have attained a minimum height of six feet (6’) within   three (3) full growing seasons.
B.
If man‐made screening methods are specified, the following shall apply:     1.
All screening material shall be continuously maintained, present an attractive  exterior appearance and be of durable construction.
The party or parties  required to provide the screening shall be responsible for the cost incurred in this  maintenance.
2.
Unless otherwise noted, the acceptable screening materials include: wood  stockade fences, masonry walls and earth berms.
3.
In the rear or the side yards, the screening walls or fences shall be a minimum of  six feet (6’) in height, or as modified by the Planning Commission; but, it shall not  exceed three feet (3’) in height within any required front yard.
4.
The location of screening shall not obstruct the visibility of any traffic circulation.
C. The buffers shall be of sufficient width, opacity, height, and density to eliminate the  adverse impact on adjacent properties.
Article VII – SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS     Zoning Ordinance          Page 104 of 139    11.02  Modification or Waiver     A.
The screening and planting requirements of this section shall be applied to similarly  classified and situated properties but may be modified or waived altogether, in  certain cases, by the Planning Commission, where a building site is subject to any of  the following circumstances:     1.
Where natural vegetation (trees and/or shrubs) exist on a piece of property, when   application is made for a building permit, a strip of natural vegetation shall be left  undisturbed until the Building Inspector has inspected such area and evaluated it  with regard to the width requirements set forth in the Zoning Ordinance for that  specific use and zone, as well as suitability.
The Building Inspector may require the  developer to retain a portion of the natural vegetation, where such, exists, as a  greenbelt/buffer, rather than require a man‐made planting strip or other methods of  screening.
All such buffers must be of sufficient in both height and density to achieve  the desired purpose as a natural barrier.
2.
Where impending development of adjacent property would make these standards  unreasonable or impractical.
3.
Where, after inspection by the Building Inspector, it is found that two (2) different  and incompatible zone districts abut each other but are already separated by a street  or alley or where the view from the adjoining district is blocked by a change in grade  or other natural or man‐made features.
4.
Where a greenbelt or planting strip cannot, in the professional opinion of an expert  in the field, be expected to thrive due to poor soil conditions, intense shade or similar  conditions.
5.
The fences, where installed, shall be constructed prior to the issuance of a certificate  of occupancy.
6.
All plantings shall be permanently maintained in good growing condition by the party  or parties required to provide such plantings.
When necessary, such plantings shall  be replaced with new growth.
All fencing shall be permanently maintained in good  condition and, whenever necessary, based upon the opinion of the Building  Inspector, be repaired or replaced by the party or parties required to provide such  fences.
7.
In special cases, where the site and/or rear yards may be inadequate to meet the  requirements for the buffer strip, the Planning Commission shall determine, based  upon the site plan review or other pertinent information requested, an alternative  method of screening or separation.
Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 105 of 139  ARTICLE VIII     SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     §1.00      Generally      Certain land use activities are identified for special treatment.
The nature of these is  such that, when properly regulated, they are appropriate in several zone districts.
In order to  bring about proper integration of these uses into the City’s land use pattern, a special set of  criteria or standards will aid in maintaining compatibility with adjoining land uses.
It is intended  that the Zoning Board of Adjustment will review all proposals for special exception uses for  compliance with the appropriate provisions for these special exception uses contained in this  Article before approval is granted and a building permit is issued.
1.01  Special Exception Procedures     All uses listed as permitted by Special Exception shall require the review and  approval of an application to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
An application for  a special exception use shall first be filed with the Building Inspector at least  twenty‐one (21) days before the scheduled public hearing date by the Zoning  Board of Adjustment.
The application shall be filed by the property owner, or the  authorized agent of the property owner, on a form made available by the  Building Inspector.
Such form shall be completed by the applicant, or the agent  of the applicant; and, include the following information and materials:     1.
The name, signature and address of the property owner and agent of   property owner, if any.
2.
The address of the property under consideration.
3.
The existing zoning and land use of the property under consideration.
4.
The proposed use by Special Exception.
5.
A vicinity map showing the exact location of the property.
6.
A plot plan, (where deemed applicable) drawn to scale with dimensions,   showing the property boundaries and the proposed development layout.
7.
A filing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) is required from the applicant or   the agent of the applicant at the time the application is made for a Special  Exception Use.
This fee is non‐refundable in the event such proposal is not  approved.
1.02  Public Notice Required     The applicant shall, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled Zoning Board  of Adjustment hearing, give written notice of the proposal to all adjacent  property owners, as indicated on the most current tax record as recorded in the  county Tax Assessor’s office.
Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited  in the United States Post Office, in the form of postage prepaid certified mail,  return receipt, and addressed to such property owners at their addresses as  submitted with the application.
The applicant shall provide to the City a copy of     Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 106 of 139  the certified mailing receipt at least 10 days before the hearing date.
Such notice  shall be using a template provided by the City and contain the following:     1.
The name of the applicant.
2.
The location of the subject property.
3.
The proposed use by Special Exception.
4.
The time, date and location of the Board of Adjustment public hearing.
§2.00    Hobby Farms     A.
The minimum lot area shall be two (2) acres.
B.
Unless otherwise provided for in this Ordinance, the keeping of farm animals and   fowl (livestock and fowl) shall be limited to the following typed:     1.
Poultry.
2.
Horses, donkeys, ponies, (although the keeping of goats, sheep and swine are   prohibited as a part of a hobby farm).
C. The use shall be subject to the following setback and area requirements:     1.
Farm animals shall be housed not less than two hundred feet (200’) from and  adjacent lot not zoned A‐1.
2.
Offensive animal odors shall not be detectable at the property line.
3.
At least one (1) acre of lot area shall be required for each small livestock animal.
A maximum of twenty (20) poultry for every 8,000 square feet of lot area shall be  permitted.
§3.00    Shopping Centers     Where permitted, a shopping center shall consist of a building group that is unified:     A.
A site development plan shall be required which provides for:     1.
A minimum site depth of three hundred feet (300’), unless otherwise provided  for elsewhere in this Ordinance.
2.
An integrated parking area and vehicular loading spaces as specified in Article IX.
3.
The convenient vehicular servicing or buildings, the satisfactory circulation of   traffic throughout the parking areas and no undue interference with through  traffic in gaining ingress and egress from the proposed site.
4.
The location, size and character of all exterior signs.
5.
A buffer strip of not less than twenty feet (20’) where a shopping center abuts   any residential district.
6.
Convenient and safely located pedestrian walkways.
7.
A traffic analysis indicating the estimated effect of the proposed shopping center   on adjacent street traffic, including volume flows to and from the proposed  facility.
This analysis shall be prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional  Engineer.
Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 107 of 139  8.
A preliminary plan or engineering report providing for the site grading, storm  drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply prepared by an Alabama Registered  Professional Engineer.
9.
A copy of any Deed Restrictions intended for the property owners upon which  the proposed shopping center is to be constructed.
§4.00    Restaurants, Fast Food      A  Where permitted, Fast Food Restaurants shall comply with the following:     a.
When adjacent to residential districts, a five‐foot high fence, constructed of  opaque material, shall be located on all the property lines of the said Fast  Food Restaurant premises, not bordering on a public street.
Where the  Zoning Board of Adjustment deems appropriate, a buffer may be substituted,  providing the desired screening effect is achieved by providing a visually  impervious barrier.
b.
The front yard and any side yard adjacent to a public street shall be provided  with a ten‐foot wide buffer, except where a driveway opening is necessary  for ingress to and egress from the site.
c. A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report, providing for the site  grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply, shall be prepared  by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer.
d. Fixed lighting shall be arranged in such a manner so as not to shine, reflect or  glare onto surrounding properties or public streets.
e. Parking Lots of any Fast Food Restaurant shall be cleared of all used paper,  trash, refuse and other waste materials at least once every six (6) hours prior  to closing.
f. A Fast Food Restaurant shall not be permitted to install and maintain loud  speakers or jukeboxes in a manner that allows sounds coming from them to  be heard outside the restaurant building.
This shall not, however, include  microphones and speakers necessary for ordering food at drive‐through  windows.
g. Each Fast Food Restaurant shall be provided with a dumpster pad which shall  be located in the rear of the establishment and enclosed in a manner  adequate to conceal such from public view and be installed in a manner  consistent with local health department regulations.
§5.00    Hospitals       A.
Where permitted, Hospitals shall comply with the following regulations:     1.
Submission of a site development plan which provides for:     a.
A scaled plan/engineering feasibility report with: site grading, storm,   drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply, prepared by an Alabama  Registered Professional Engineer.
Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 108 of 139  b.
Where deemed necessary, by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, a traffic  analysis indicating the estimated traffic flows to and from the hospital  prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer.
§6.00    Nursing Care Facilities     A.
Where permitted, a Nursing Care Facility shall comply with the following   requirements:     1.
Submission of a site development plan which provides for:     a.
A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report providing for: the site  grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply, prepared by an  Alabama Registered Professional Engineer.
b.
Where deemed necessary by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, a traffic  analysis indicating the estimated traffic flows to and from the nursing care  facility prepared by an Alabama Registered Professional Engineer.
§7.00    Cemeteries     A.
Where permitted, Cemeteries shall comply with the following requirements:     1.
A site development plan that depicts: the boundaries of the cemetery, existing  zoning, and adjacent land uses, topography, drainage, and buffers.
a.
No part of a cemetery shall be located closer than two hundred feet (200’)   from any residential zone district in the City, nor closer than five hundred  feet (500’) from any hospital or nursing care facility.
b.
A six‐foot high protective wall or fence shall be constructed on all property  lines, except at points of ingress and egress.
A cemetery shall be exempt  from any required buffering or screening along public rights‐of‐way.
The  facility shall have installed gates with locks at points of ingress and egress.
c. No gravesite shall be located closer than one hundred and fifty feet (150’)  from a water line or underground water supply.
d. Mausoleums, crematoriums or any other buildings or structures  accessory/incidental to a cemetery shall not be closer than two hundred feet  (200’) from any property line.
§8.00    Home Occupations     A.
Where permitted, a Home Occupation shall comply with the following requirements:     1.
The Home Occupation shall be clearly incidental to residential use of the dwelling   in which located and shall not change the essential character of the dwelling or  adversely affect the uses permitted in the district of which it is a part.
No Home  Occupation shall be permitted, which might interfere with the general welfare of  the surrounding residential area due to increased noise and/or pedestrian and  vehicular traffic or any other condition that would constitute an objectionable  use of residentially zoned property.
Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 109 of 139  2.
All customary Home Occupations shall be limited to an office or a business of a  personal service nature.
3.
A Home Occupation shall be confined to twenty‐five percent (25%) of the  principal dwelling, and no outside storage shall be used in connection with it.
No  additional buildings or structures may be constructed in connection with the  Home Occupation.
4.
The employment shall be limited to the members of the family residing in the  dwelling.
5.
No display of products shall be visible from the street and only articles made on  the premises may be sold.
6.
Instruction of music, art, dancing and similar activities shall be limited to two (2)  students at a time and any noise created by the activity shall not be detectable  outside the premises.
7.
The activity carried on as a Home Occupation shall be limited to the hours of 7:00  A.M. and 8:00 P.M.   8.
The Building Inspector of the City of Leeds and a representative of the Public  Safety Department of the City shall be permitted to make an inspection, upon  receipt of the initial application; and, in addition, make annual inspections at  license renewal time or at any time, upon reasonable request, to enter and  inspect the premises covered for safety and compliance purposes.
9.
The Building Inspector and/or the representative of the Public Safety Department  shall file, with the Zoning Board of Adjustment, a written inspection report of any  inspection to determine whether the licensee is in compliance.
If the licensee is  found not to be in compliance, areas of non‐compliance shall be set out.
10.
In the event of the death or relocation of a Home Occupation licensee, the  existing license shall automatically terminate.
However, if a surviving spouse or  adult child, residing at the same residence at the time of this event desires to  continue the Home Occupation, the license would remain in effect, providing  everything set forth in this Ordinance.
§9.00    Self‐Storage Facilities     A.
Where permitted, Self‐Storage Facilities shall comply with the following   requirements:    1.
No outdoor storage shall be permitted on the site.
2.
No storage of volatile, toxic, illegal or explosive materials shall be permitted,   either inside the structure(s) or on the premises.
3.
The facility or site shall not be used for any wholesale or retail sales operation or   activity; however, this shall not include incidental retail activity (sale of boxes,  packing material, etc.)
by management or periodic sales by the management on  the premises to dispose of items which have been abandoned and/or for which  the lease time has expired.
4.
A minimum lot size of one (1) acre shall be required for a Mini‐Warehouse  development and such facility shall be limited to one (1) story height.
5.
A screen fencing shall be installed around the perimeter of the development.
The said fencing shall be a minimum of eight feet (8’) in height.
The points of     Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 110 of 139  ingress and egress to the facility shall be provided with gates that shall be locked  when the facility is not open for business.
6.
All outdoor lighting shall be shielded to direct light and glare onto the Mini‐ Warehouse premises and may be of sufficient intensity to discourage vandalism  and theft.
The said lighting shall be deflected, shaded, and focused away from all  adjoining properties.
7.
The manager shall be responsible for maintaining the operation of the facility in  conformance with the conditions of approval and all the applicable provisions.
B.
A site development plan is required, which provides for:     1.
A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report which addresses the site   grading, storm drainage, water run‐off, the availability of utilities and the  identification of areas which will require buffers.
A twelve‐foot buffer shall be  provided along all property lines abutting any residential zone district within the  City.
§10.00    Private Tennis Courts     A.
Where permitted, private tennis courts shall comply with the following  requirements:     1.
All tennis Courts constructed in single‐family or two‐family residential districts   shall comply with the following standards:     a.
The tennis court shall be located in the rear yard  b.
The tennis court shall not be located any closer than twenty‐five feet (25’)   from any property line and residential structure.
c. All the fences shall meet the requirements of Article VII, §4.00.
d. The tennis courts for multi‐family and commercial uses shall meet the   standards deemed appropriate by the Zoning Board of Adjustment during the  review of each specific proposal, including but not limited to the required  buffers.
e. If lighted, all exterior lighting fixtures shall be constructed in a manner so as  to direct the beam of light toward the facility itself and away from any  adjacent areas.
The said fixtures shall not exceed twenty‐five feet (25’) in  height.
§11.00    Industrial Parks     A.
Where permitted, Industrial Parks shall comply with the following requirements:     1.
An Industrial Park shall, for the purpose of this Ordinance, include all land ten  (10) acres or more in size, subdivided and platted into two (2) or more parcels  and used or intended to be used for predominately industrial or commercial  purposes of an industrial character.
2.
A site development plan shall be required for each Industrial Park which provides  for the following:     Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 111 of 139    a.
An access to an Industrial Park shall be by way of a dedicated street.
b.
All streets or roadways within an Industrial Park shall have a minimum right‐  of‐way width of seventy feet (70’), and shall conform to the City of Leeds  standards for commercial streets or as otherwise approved by the Zoning  Board of Adjustment.
c. All off‐street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the  provisions of Article IX.
d. The outdoor storage in an Industrial Park shall be permitted only when  accessory to a permitted principal use and only when storage areas are  suitably screened by either landscaping or fences or walls and.
The Zoning  Board of Adjustment shall approve plans before a building permit shall be  issued for their construction.
e. A buffer area, not less than fifty feet (50’) in width, shall be provided along all  the property lines of an Industrial Park which abuts any residential zone  district.
f. A cul‐de‐sac street shall not be permitted in Industrial Parks; however, dead‐ end street are permitted, when not more than five hundred feet (500’) in  length, as measured from the terminal point of the dead‐end street to the  closest intersection.
Such a terminal point is to be provided with a paved  vehicle turnaround area having a minimum right‐of‐way radius of seventy  feet (70’).
g. All street lighting shall be provided and maintained by property owners.
The  City of Leeds shall not install or maintain street lights within industrial parks   h. The vehicular approach to an Industrial Park site from a public street or  highway shall have a minimum radius, so designed, such that uncontrolled  left hand turns from the street or highway shall be eliminated or reduced  either by a frontage roadway or other suitable means deemed adequate by  the Zoning Board of Adjustment and the Leeds Street Department  Superintendent.
i.
A traffic study shall be conducted, by persons qualified in this field for the  purpose of determining points or ingress and egress, speed limits  acceleration and deceleration, etc., and be provided to the City Engineer for  concurrence.
j.
Where points of ingress and egress to Industrial Parks from public streets or  highways, having speed limits in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour, are  located, there shall be provided, on a public thoroughfare, acceleration and  deceleration lanes, the length of which shall be determined by the following:     Speed (Miles Per Hour)        30 40 50 55  Distance in Feet              100 200 300 350      k. A report of subsurface soil conditions shall be provided to the City Engineer,   Superintendent of Streets and Zoning Board of Adjustment by an Alabama  Registered Professional Engineer.
l. A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report, prepared by an Alabama  Registered Professional Engineer, shall be submitted to the City Engineer and     Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 112 of 139  the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
This plan/report shall provide for the site  grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewerage and water supply.
m. A copy of any Deed Restrictions shall be provided to the Planning  Commission.
§12.00    Transmission Towers (Commercial)     A.
PURPOSE     The purpose of these guidelines is to establish minimum considerations and criteria  for the review of communication towers.
It is the Zoning Board of Adjustment’s  express intent that the construction of new towers be an option of last resort; to the  greatest extent feasible, location of antennae on existing towers, and other suitable  structures should first be sought.
These guidelines are designed to ensure the  compatibility of towers with and avoid adverse impacts to nearby properties and  discourage the proliferation of towers throughout the City of Leeds.
B. DEFINITIONS     12.01    Applicability.
All communication towers are subject to these guidelines.
12.02    Objectives.
The proposed locations and design of all communications towers shall duly consider the  following public health, safety, and general welfare objectives:     1.
Structural Safety.
The proposed tower will comply with wind loading and other   structural standards contained in applicable building and technical codes so as not to  endanger the health and safety of residents, employees or travelers in the event of  structural failure of the tower due to extreme weather conditions or other acts of  God.
2.
View Protection.
The proposed tower facility will be designed to minimize adverse  visual impacts to surrounding properties and the public right‐of‐way, given the  topography of the proposed site and surrounding area.
3.
Land Use Compatibility.
The proposed tower facility will be compatible with the  surrounding land uses, given the character of the use and development of the  location.
4.
Design Harmony.
The proposed tower facility will be designed in harmony with the  natural setting and the surrounding development pattern as well as to the highest  industry standards.
5.
Existing Communications Services.
The proposed tower facility will comply with FCC  and other applicable agency standards so as not to interfere with existing  communications services to the area.
Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 113 of 139  6.
Health Effects.
The proposed tower will comply with all applicable federal, state,  county and city health standards so as not to cause detrimental health effects to  persons in the surrounding area.
12.03    Development Criteria     The City of Leeds Building Inspector and City Engineer shall review all communications  towers requesting permits for compliance with the applicable standards and criteria  listed below.
For communication towers that are subject to site review by the Zoning  Board of Adjustment, any of these criteria may be waived or adjusted by this Body if the  circumstances of a particular case so warrant, In any event, these criteria are considered  the minimum necessary to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
The  Zoning Board of Adjustment may also impose higher standards if it deems them to be  necessary to further the objectives of these guidelines.
1.
Setbacks.
A.
Where permitted, the distance between the base of the tower, including guys,   accessory facilities, and property lines abutting urban residential districts, public  parks and roads must equal twenty percent (20%) of the tower height, property  lines adjacent to other uses (e.g.
agriculture, industrial), shall require a setback  equal to the rear yard setback established for the underlying zone.
B.
When located within or adjacent to a residential district or dwelling, the  minimum standard setback from all adjoining residential property boundaries  shall be fifty feet (50’).
C. The Site Review by the Zoning Board of Adjustment may reduce the standard  setbacks in exceptional cases where a hardship would result due to unusual  conditions on the site or other impracticalities.
However, the Zoning Board of  Adjustment shall not reduce the setbacks to the detriment of affected residential  properties.
2.
Appearance.
A.
Towers shall maintain a galvanized steel or concrete finish so as to reduce the   visibility of the structure, unless other standards are required by the Federal  Aviation Administration (FAA).
B.
The design of the tower shall be of a type that has the least visual impact on the  surrounding area.
C. The design of the tower compound shall, to the greatest extent possible,  maximize use of building materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping  that effectively blend the tower facilities within the surrounding natural setting  and built environment.
D. Where communications towers are deemed appropriate for a given location, the  type of tower shall be restricted to monopoles in or within 1,000 feet of  residential areas and areas of special aesthetic concerns such as commercial  revitalization areas, historic districts and scenic corridors.
Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 114 of 139  3.
Lighting     Towers shall not be artificially lighted unless required by the FAA or other authority  for safety purposes.
Where required, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall review  the available lighting alternatives and approve that design that would cause the least  disturbance to the surrounding views.
“Dual lighting” (red at night/strobe during  day) shall be preferred unless restricted by the FAA.
Security lighting may be  permitted in accordance with 13.03,5.
(Security Devices) below.
4.
Landscaping.
A.
A landscaped buffer shall effectively screen the view of the tower compound  from adjacent public ways and residential properties.
B.
The standard buffer shall consist of a minimum eight feet (8’) wide landscaped  strip outside the dark vinyl coated steel security fencing of the perimeter of the  compound.
The buffer strip shall be planted with an attractive combination of  trees, shrubs, vines, and/or ground covers that can achieve the full height of the  fence at maturity and enhances the outward appearance of the security fence.
For sites within 1,000 feet of a residence, the Site Review by the Zoning Board of  Adjustment may impose increased buffer standards to include a decay‐resistant,  solid wood fence, earth berms and brick or masonry walls in addition to the  security fencing.
All fencing and landscaping shall be maintained by the  lessor/owner.
C. In isolated non‐residential areas, alternative‐landscaping methods may be  accepted, such as the use of earth‐toned colored, vinyl‐coated steel security  fencing in combination with four feet of evergreen trees, shrubs, vines, and/or  other plantings.
D. In certain locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, such  as remote, agricultural or rural locations or developed heavy industrial areas, the  landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived by the Zoning Board of  Adjustment.
E. Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms on the site shall be preserved  to the maximum extent possible.
In some cases, such as towers located on large,  wooded lots, preservation of substantial natural growth around the property  perimeter may be a sufficient buffer.
F. Cellular facilities utilizing underground vaults in lieu of above ground switching  gear buildings shall be exempted from any buffer requirements.
5.
Security Devices.
The facility shall be fully secured.
A minimum eight feet (8’) high, dark vinyl coated  steel; chain link fence shall be installed around the entire perimeter of the compound  (measured to the top of the fence or barbed wire, if applicable).
Security fencing shall  require screening in accordance with 4‐E above.
Other security measures shall  include locks and alarms.
Approved barbed or razor wire and lighting of the  compound shall be permitted, if deemed necessary to fully secure the tower  compound.
6.
Access.
Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 115 of 139    Driveways and parking shall be provided to assure the operator’s access to the  facility for maintenance or emergency services.
In some cases, parking/access may  be from an adjoining alley, public street, or off‐street parking area.
7.
Co‐Location     No new tower shall be established if space were structurally, technically and  economically available on an existing tower that would serve the area that the new  tower would serve.
Documentation that reasonable efforts have been made by the  applicant to achieve co‐location shall be submitted in accordance with 4‐F.
Towers  shall be designed to maximize shared use to the greatest extent possible, given the  structural and technical limitations of the type of tower proposed.
In any event, co‐ location shall be encouraged.
If feasible, each tower shall, at a minimum, be  designed for double its intended use for all transmitting and receiving antennae  other than microwave dish antennae.
8.
Removal of Obsolete Towers     Any tower that is no longer in use for its original communications purpose shall be  removed at the owner’s expense.
The owner shall provide the Building Inspector  with a copy of the notice of the FCC of intent to cease operations, which shall be  given ninety (90) days from the date of ceasing operations to remove the obsolete  tower and accessory structures.
In the case of multiple operators sharing use of a  single tower, this provision shall not become effective until all users cease operation.
12.04  Application.
Any application submitted for approval shall submit the following items, in addition to  any other required items, to show compliance with these review standards.
1.
Statement of Impact on Health, Safety and Welfare.
A brief written statement shall   address conformance with the health, safety and welfare objectives of these  guidelines.
2.
Site Plan.
A scaled site plan shall show the location and dimensions of all  improvements, including setbacks, drives, parking, fencing, landscaping, and other  information necessary to determine compliance with the development criteria of  these guidelines.
3.
Rendering.
A rendering of the tower, accessory facilities, and compound shall depict  colors, materials, and treatment.
If lighting or other FAA requirements for tower  color is proposed, evidenced of such requirement shall be submitted.
4.
Justification for a New Tower.
A proposal for a new tower shall be documented by  the applicant that the planned equipment for a proposed tower cannot be  accommodated on an existing tower within the proposed service area.
The applicant  shall submit a written affidavit showing what attempts have been made to share an  existing tower or that no such tower exists.
5.
Certification of Shared Use Design.
A qualified engineer, registered in the State of  Alabama, shall certify that the proposed towers structural design can accommodate a     Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 116 of 139  minimum of two (2) shared users, in accordance with 13.03, (7), Development  Criteria.
6.
As Built Survey.
A qualified professional engineer, registered in the State of Alabama,  shall certify that the proposed cellular site was built in accordance with the  submitted site plan including the installation of any required buffer strip.
7.
Total anticipated capacity of the structure, including the number and types of  antennas that can be accommodated.
8.
Mitigation measures for ice and other hazard falling debris, including setbacks and  de‐icing equipment.
9.
Where applicable, adequate parking shall be provided, along with buffers where such  tower abuts any residential zone district.
Such towers shall be prohibited in any  residential zone district of the City of Leeds, Alabama.
§13.00    Bed and Breakfast Establishments     A.
Where permitted, such establishments shall comply with the following requirements:     1.
Activities related to bed and breakfast establishments shall be conducted in a   building originally designed as a detached single‐family residence.
2.
Breakfast shall be served only to persons who have lodging in the inn and shall be   the only meal served.
3.
No food preparation or cooking for guests shall be conducted within any   bedroom made available for rent.
4.
The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its single‐  family character.
5.
A maximum of five (5) bedrooms shall be made available for rent.
A bed and   breakfast home having more than five (5) bedrooms for rent may be approved by  the Zoning Board of Adjustment if the home is designated as a historic landmark.
If designated as a historic landmark, any interior modification shall be described  in the application and shall not be injurious to the historic character of the  structure, woodwork, stairways, fireplaces: windows and doors, cornices,  moldings, chair rails or light fixtures.
6.
No exterior alterations, other than those necessary to ensure the safety of the  structure and its occupants, shall be made to any building for the purpose of  providing a bed and breakfast.
7.
One stationary sign (ground mounted or wall mounted) is permitted per  establishment.
This sign shall not exceed eight (8) square feet in sign area and six  feet (6’) in height.
Such sign shall not be illuminated in any manner.
If a ground  sign is utilized, it shall be subject to the setback requirements set forth for such  signs in residential areas of the sign section of Article X.
§14.00    Tree Cutting (Commercial)     Any proposal to conduct commercial woodcutting operation in Leeds shall meet the  following requirements:       Article VIII – SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES     Zoning Ordinance          Page 117 of 139  A.
The wood cutting firm or company shall submit a written summary of their intentions  and plans to the Leeds Tree Commission.
This summary shall contain the following:     1.
The name and owner of the firm, company, corporation or business as well as   the address of the operations headquarters.
2.
The location at which the tree cutting activity is to take place and the name and   address of the owner of the subject property  3.
The approximate number of trees to be cut and/or the acreage involved in the   operation.
4.
The slope of the area involved and location of any adjacent streams or other   bodies of water that could be adversely affected by land disturbance and tree  removal thereby increasing the volume of surface water runoff and other  environmental issues.
5.
If the purpose of the tree cutting is for the development of farmland,  pastureland, or building purposes, then no reforestation plan shall be required.
However, any time there is any clear cutting of timber within the City of Leeds,  Alabama, where the wood is simply harvested for sale and the property will be  put to no other use, a reforestation plan must be submitted to the Leeds Tree  Commission at the time application is made.
B.
The comments of the Leeds Tree Commission shall be forwarded to the Zoning Board   of Adjustment for review.
The applicant shall complete and submit an application to  the City for a Special Exception Use.
The applicant shall also provide the above  information to the Zoning Board of Adjustment, which shall hold a public hearing  consistent with the notification requirements cited for other Special Exception Uses  in this Section.
The issuance of a permit for commercial wood cutting activity shall  only be granted on condition of approval by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
§15.00  Special Event     A temporary outdoor use on private property that extends beyond the normal uses and  standards allowed by the zoning ordinance of the city.
“Special Event” includes, but is  not limited to, art shows, pumpkin and Christmas tree sales, haunted houses, carnivals  (major and minor), special auto sales, grand openings, festivals, and bazaars.
§16.00 Urban Barnyard Facility    A facility for the keeping of fowl and rabbits in an urban environment subject to the  following conditions:     1.
Housing and feeding shall be at least 75 feet from the nearest residence  under separate ownership;   2.
Female fowl only;  3.
Lot must contain a minimum of open lot area measuring 15,000 square feet;  4.
Have absorbent ground cover that is serviced as needed          Article IX – OFF‐STREET PARKING     Zoning Ordinance          Page 118 of 139  ARTICLE IX     OFF‐STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS     §1.00    Purpose of Off‐Street Parking and Loading Requirements         The purpose of this Article is to reduce traffic congestion on public streets by making provisions  for  minimum,  off‐street,  parking  and  loading  standards.
It  is  intended  to  ensure  safe  and  convenient  access,  to  and  from  each  site;  ensure  sale  and  efficient  traffic  circulation;  and,  encourage aesthetic and functional design proposals.
1.01  Required Off‐Street Parking Spaces     A.
Unless otherwise provided for, all uses shall conform to the minimum parking   requirements outlined below.
In situations where the required number of parking  spaces is not readily determinable by the table shown below, the Building Inspector  is authorized to determine the parking space requirements using the table as a guide.
Table IX .01       Agricultural Uses  Required Parking Spaces   1.
Farms  2 per every 3 employees   2.
Farm Stands  1 per 100 sf of display area        Table IX.02       Residential Uses  Required Parking Spaces   1.
Single‐Family Residences  2 per DU   2.
Garden Homes  2 per DU   3.
Townhomes  2 per DU   4.
Manufactured Homes  2 per DU   5.
Duplexes  2 per DU   6.
Multi‐Family Dousing  1 ½ per DU   7.
Elderly Residential Development  1 per DU                 Table IX.03        Industrial Uses  Required Parking Spaces   1.
Distribution Services  2 per every 3 employees,  3 1 per company vehicles but not  less than 1 per 500 sf of GLA   2.
General Manufacturing  2 per every 3 employees; 1 per  company vehicle but not less     Article IX – OFF‐STREET PARKING     Zoning Ordinance          Page 119 of 139  than 1 per 1,000 sq ft of GLA   3.
Industries  Same as General Manufacturing   4.
Research Laboratories  Same as General Manufacturing   5.
Similar uses  Same as General Manufacturing   6.
Warehouses  2 for every 3 vehicles; 1 per  company vehicle but not less  than 1 per 500 sf of GLA   7.
Wholesale Businesses  Same as for Warehouses          Table IX.04     Institutional Uses  Required parking Spaces   1.
Boarding Houses  1 per BR   2.
Clubs  1 per 100 sf (non‐storage and  non‐service floor area)   3.
Community Centers  1 per 300 sf GLA   4.
Country Clubs  1 per 3 persons (Maximum  Occupancy)   5.
Day Care Centers  1 per employee and 1 for every 8  occupants (Maximum  Occupancy)   6.
Hospitals  1 for every 2 beds; 1 ½ for every  emergency bed; plus 1 per  employee   7.
Nursing Care  1 per 2 persons (Maximum  Occupancy); 1 per employee   8.
Domiciliary Care  1 per 2 person (Maximum  Occupancy); 1 per employee   9.
Rehabilitation Facilities  1 per 2 persons (Maximum  Occupancy); 1 per employee   10.
Group Care Facilities  1 per 2 persons (Maximum  Occupancy); 1 per employee   11.
Places of Worship  1 per 3 persons (maximum  Occupancy)   12.
Post Offices  1 per 300 sf of GLA; 1 per  employee   13.
Public Assembly Areas  1 per 3 persons (Maximum  Occupancy)   14.
Public Facilities  1 per 300 sf of GLA   15.
Colleges and Universities  1 for every 3 students (Maximum  Enrollment); 2 for every 3  employees   16.
Elementary and Junior High Schools  1 for every 8 students (Maximum  Enrollment); 2 for every 3  employees   17.
Vocational and High Schools  1 for every 6 students (Maximum     Article IX – OFF‐STREET PARKING     Zoning Ordinance          Page 120 of 139  Enrollment); 2 for every 3  employees        Table IX.05               1.
Appliance Stores  1 per 400 sf of GLA   2.
Banks  1 per 150 sf of GLA and 34  stacking spaces per drive‐in  window   3.
Bed and Breakfast  1 per guest bedroom; 1 per  employee   4.
Billiard rooms/pool halls  2 per table   5.
Barber/Beauty Shops  1 per 100 sf of GLA   6.
Bowling Alleys  4 per alley   7.
Farm Support Business  2 for every 3 employees and 1 for  every company vehicle   8.
Home Improvement Centers  1 per 400 sf of GLA   9.
Car Washes  2 for every 3 employees and 1 for  every 3 company vehicles   10.
Clinics  6 per practitioner   11.
Commercial Schools  1 for every 3 students (Maximum  Occupancy) and 2 for every 3  employees.
12.
Convenience Stores  1 per 125 sf GLA   13.
Funeral Homes  1 for every chapel seat  (Maximum Occupancy); 1 per  company vehicle; 2 for every 3  employees   14.
Furniture Stores  1 per 500 sf of GLA   15.
Gasoline Service Stations  2 per service bay; 1 per company  vehicle; 2 stacking spaces per  island   16.
General Retail Business  1 per 200 sf of GLA   17.
Hotels and Motels  1 per room; 2 for every 3  employees   18.
Laundromats/Dry‐Cleaners  1 per machine or 1 per 200 sf of  GLA (whichever is greater)   19.
Mini‐Warehouses  1 per every 15 units   20.
Motor Vehicle Sales  1 per 200 sf of sales area, 1 per  service bay, 1 per 2,500 sf of  outdoor display area.
21.
Motor Vehicle Service  1 per 200 sf of sales area; 1 per  service bay   22.
Offices – Professional/Businesses  1 per 200 sf of GLA   23.
Outdoor Recreation:       Article IX – OFF‐STREET PARKING     Zoning Ordinance          Page 121 of 139  Golf Courses  Carpet Golf  Golf Driving Ranges  Other   5 per hole                                              2 per tee                                                1 per tee  1 for every 3 person   24.
Open Air Markets  1 per 100 sf of display space   25.
Restaurants  1 per 100 sf of GLA; 1 per  delivery vehicle; 4 stacking  spaces per drive‐in window   26.
Shopping Centers with Restaurants  and/or Theatres   11 per 2,000 sf of GLA add 1 per  100 sf of GLA , 1 for every 3  persons (Maximum Occupancy)   27.
Stables  1 for every 3 persons (Maximum  Occupancy); 2 for every 3  employees   28.
Tourist Homes  1 per guest bedroom; 1 per  employee          1.02  Off‐Street Parking Design Requirements    A.
The following are minimum parking space dimensions:     1.
Each parking space, a rectangle, shall measure nine feet (9’) in width and  nineteen feet (19’) in length, except as provided in 2 and 3 below.
2.
In large parking areas, twenty (20) parking spaces or more, up to twenty percent  (20%) of the parking spaces may be reserved for compact cars.
Such rectangular  spaces shall measure a minimum of eight feet (8’) in width and sixteen feet (16’)  in length and be conspicuously marked for compact cars only.
3.
All rectangular parking spaces, parallel to streets, shall measure nine feet (9’) in  width and twenty‐two feet (22’) in length.
4.
A stacking space shall contain a minimum rectangular area of ten feet (10’) in  width and twenty feet (20’) in length and be separated from parking aisles and  spaces.
5.
All handicapped parking spaces shall conform to the provisions of the Standard  Building Code, 1994, Chapter 11, and as such may be amended with regard to  accessibility for the physically disabled and/or handicapped.
6.
All off‐street parking spaces, at an angle of forty‐five degrees to the curb of the  street, forming a rhomboid, shall measure thirteen feet (sides parallel to the  curb) by twenty‐four feet (24’) (sides at an angle to the curb).
The width of such  spaces, the perpendicular distance between the sides at an angle to the curb,  shall measure nine feet (9’).
7.
All off‐street parking spaces, at an angle of sixty degrees to the curb of the street,  forming a rhomboid, shall measure ten feet (sides parallel to the curb).
The  width of such spaces, the perpendicular distance between the sides at an angle  to the curb, shall measure nine feet (9’).
Article IX – OFF‐STREET PARKING     Zoning Ordinance          Page 122 of 139  B.
The parking areas shall be designed to discourage and prevent vehicles from backing  onto public streets/roads.
The parking areas that serve one (1) or two (2) dwelling  units, that do not abut an arterial street or road, are exempt from this requirement.
C. All parking areas, when adjoining a street right‐of‐way between adjoining lots, shall  be physically separated from the right‐of‐way.
D. The lighting fixtures used to illuminate parking areas shall not direct lights on  adjoining streets or properties.
E. The parking areas for all the subdivisions and developments shall have adequate  provisions to allow sanitation, emergency and other public service vehicles to safely  serve them.
The construction standards for these parking areas must assure the  support and maneuverability of all public service vehicles.
Where necessary, fire  lanes may be required by NFPA or City of Leeds Fire Codes.
F. All parking areas shall be paved with dust‐free materials (asphalt or concrete).
G. All parking spaces, except those serving one‐or two dwelling units, shall be   demarcated with painted lines or other acceptable visual markings.
H. All parking areas shall be maintained in good condition, free of potholes, weeds,   trash, refuse, etc.
The maintenance responsibilities shall be those of the  owner/lessor or the renter/lessee, as may be the case.
I.
The drainage in parking areas shall direct storm water back into the site from  adjacent properties toward adequate drainage channels.
All large parking areas of  twenty (20) spaces or more shall provide on‐site storm water detention to retard the  sudden discharge of high volumes of storm water into the public drainage system.
The quantity and rate of run‐off after development shall not exceed the quantity and  rate of run‐off before development, based on a twenty‐five (25) year storm  frequency.
The drainage plans shall be subject to approval of both the Leeds  Planning Commission and the City Engineer.
1.03  Location of Required Parking     A.
All required parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the use served by the parking,   except as provided below.
1.
The required parking within planned residential developments may be provided in  common parking areas.
2.
If the number of required parking spaces cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot  as the served use, satellite parking may be provided on an adjacent lot.
The satellite  parking spaces shall be located within four hundred feet (400’) of the nearest public  entrance to the building housing the principal use, if the use is not housed within a  building, satellite parking spaces shall be located four hundred feet (400’) of the lot.
A  satellite parking exception requires written legal documentation, that the user of such  satellite spaces has the right to them.
3.
A joint parking area may contain required parking spaces for more than one (1) use,  provided the combined number of spaces complies with the parking for all uses.
If,  however, the concerned parties wish to utilize the same spaces at different times, these  spaces may be credited to each separate use.
The applicant for a combined use facility  must present documentation of a combined parking agreement, and, if sharing the same  spaces, a time schedule for allocation of such spaces must be documented.
Article IX – OFF‐STREET PARKING     Zoning Ordinance          Page 123 of 139  1.04  Parking Prohibitions     A.
The keeping of an inoperative motor vehicle in a residential district shall be within a  fully enclosed building or structure or be completely screened or shielded from  public view.
No inoperative motor vehicle shall be parked on any public street.
B.
No vehicle exceeding 10,000 pounds gross weight and no boats, trailers, recreational  vehicles, campers and similar vehicles or equipment, regardless of weight, shall be  kept within a residential district, unless such vehicle is parked behind the front  building line.
C. The use of off‐street parking in all residential districts for non‐residential purposes is  prohibited, with exceptions to social gatherings, functions, celebrations, etc., that do  not last more than twenty‐four (24) hours.
D. The use of any required parking space for the storage of any motor vehicle for sale  for any purpose other than the parking of a motor vehicle for employees or visitors is  prohibited.
1.05  Access Controls     A.
The proposed access points within the City shall be reviewed by the Building   Inspector, Street Department and City Engineer; and, it shall be approved by the  Leeds Planning Commission.
The proposed location, width, drainage structure, traffic  conditions, site distances and resurfacing shall be addressed in the request for  approval.
B.
The entrances shall be held to a minimum and be located at points affording  maximum sight distances, minimum grades and maximum separation.
For highway  service uses along major streets, combined or shared driveways, entrances and  marginal access streets may be needed.
C. The maximum number of entrances shall be as follows:          D. The property, which has frontage on two (2) or more streets, may be allowed  entrances on each street in accordance with the above criteria.
E. The distance between openings shall be one hundred and twenty‐five feet (125’),  except for single‐family detached lots.
F. The entrances shall be located so that the curb openings are a minimum of five feet  (5’) from the nearest edge of a street drainage inlet and fifty feet (50’) from the  corner radius.
G. Turning lanes or the widening of pavement at entrances may be required in some  cases, as deemed necessary by the City Engineer.
H. Each parking area on a lot shall be physically separated from an adjoining street  right‐of‐way by a curb or equivalent barrier to control vehicular access to and from  the lot.
Such barrier shall be located at or along the front lot line, unless suitable     Street Frontage Width  Maximum Entrances   1.
Less than 125 Feet  One (1)   2.
126 to 300 Feet  Two (2)   3.
201 to 500 Feet  Three (3)   4.
501 to 1,000 Feet  Four (4)   5.
Above 1,000 Feet  Five (5)     Article IX – OFF‐STREET PARKING     Zoning Ordinance          Page 124 of 139  barriers are located within the street right‐of‐way.
Except from permitted access  ways, such barriers shall be contiguous.
1.06  Required Off‐Street Loading Spaces     A.
Any use with a gross leasable area (GLA) of 6,000 square feet or more, which requires   deliveries and shipments, must provide off‐street loading spaces in accordance with  the following table.
In those situations where the required number of loading spaces  is not readily determinable by the table, the Building Inspector is authorized to  determine the loading space requirement, using the table as a guide.
GLA of Building  Number of Loading Spaces   1.
6,000 – 24,999  One (1)   2.
25,000 – 79,999  Two (2)   3.
80,000 – 127,999  Three (3)   4.
128,000 – 198,999  Four (4)   5.
199,000 – 255,999  Five (5)   6.
256,000 – 319,999  Six (6)   7.
320,000 – 391,999  Seven (7)   8.
Each Additional 72,000 of sf  One (1)     Every possible assembly use, auditorium, convention hall, exhibition hall, stadium office building,  funeral home, multi‐family apartment buildings of twenty (20) or more units, restaurants and  hotels of 30,000 square feet or more shall provide off‐street loading spaces, as follows:        GLA of Building  Number of Loading Spaces   1.
6,000‐29,999  One (1)   2.
30,000‐ 44,999  Two (2)   3.
45,000 – 119,999  Three (3)   4.
120,000 – 197,999  Four (4)   5.
198,000 – 290,999  Five (5)   6.
291,000 – 389,999  Six (6)   7.
390,000 – 488,999  Seven (7)   8.
489,000 – 587,999  Eight (8)   9.
588,000 – 689,999  Nine (9)   10  Each additional 105,000  One (1)          1.07  Off‐Street Loading design Standards     A.
Each loading space shall have a minimum rectangular area of twelve feet (12’) in width and  fifty‐five feet (55’) in length, exclusive of driver and maneuvering space.
Each space shall  allow vertical clearance of fourteen feet (14’).
B.
No loading space shall be located within the front yard or within five feet (5’) of any property  line.
C. No loading space shall be used to meet the parking space requirement, interfere with the on‐ site circulation of traffic or allow a truck to extend into any right‐of‐way or over any property  line.
Article IX – OFF‐STREET PARKING     Zoning Ordinance          Page 125 of 139  D. All lighting fixtures used to illuminate loading areas shall not direct light onto adjacent  properties.
E. All required loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the principal use served by the  spaces, unless a satellite or joint use loading facility is secured with equivalent satellite or  joint parking facilities, as provided in subsection 1.04, Location of Required Parking.
1.08  Change in Parking and Loading Requirements     A.
Whenever there is an alteration of a structure, an expansion of a use or a change in use,   which increases the parking and loading requirements, the use shall conform with the off‐ street parking and loading standards of this Ordinance to the furthest practicable extent.
Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 126 of 139  ARTICLE X  SIGN REGULATIONS     §1.00    Purpose and Intent     The purpose of these sign regulations is to encourage the effective use of signs as a  means of communication in the City of Leeds, to maintain and enhance the aesthetic  environment and the City’s ability to attract sources of economic development and  growth, to improve pedestrian and traffic safety, to minimize the possible adverse effects  of signs on nearby public and private property, and, to enable the fair and consistent  enforcement of these regulations.
§2.00    Prohibited Signs     Except as provided for exempt signs, the following signs are prohibited throughout the  City of Leeds, Alabama.
(1) Any sign erected or maintained at any location where by reason of its position,   illumination, shape, symbol, color, form or character may obstruct, impair, obscure,  interfere with the view of, or may be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal  or device, or interfere with, misled, confuse or disrupt traffic safety or flow.
(2) Any sign incorporating any noisy mechanical device (whistles, horns, sirens, or any  other noisy audible devices) or emitting smoke or steam;   (3) Any sign of any type or support thereof placed, extending, or projecting on a public  right‐of‐way or located or projecting beyond a property line, unless expressly  authorized.
(4) Any flashing, revolving, moving, reflecting, or animated sign, beacons, streamers,  pennants, or propellers, electronic reader boards, illuminated tubing, or strings of  lights; revolving, moving, reflecting or otherwise.
(5) Any sign located so that it substantially interferes with the view necessary for  motorists to proceed safely through intersections or to enter onto or exit from public  streets or private drives.
(6) Any sign with illegal, obscene, or prurient words, scenes, or graphics.
(7) Any sign painted on or attached to a utility pole, rock, tree, telephone booth (except   telephone information may be displayed), automated bank teller (except telephone  information may be displayed), bench, or the like.
(8) Any circular or throwaway flyer attached to vehicles or mounted on any object  outdoors.
(9) Any sign that blocks a fire escape, door, window, parking or loading aisle or space.
(10) Any unsafe sign.
(11)  Freestanding signs; searchlight stands; hot air or gas‐filled balloons, or umbrellas   used for advertising; and similar signs.
(12) Guy wire and similar insubstantial supports of a projecting object.
(13) A sign display on a vehicle parked primarily for the purpose of advertising a business,   product or service.
(14) Illuminated tubing or strings of light that outline property lines, sales areas, rooflines,   building lines, and similar areas.
Illumination of architectural features of a building,  such as doors, windows, and similar features shall not be prohibited.
Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 127 of 139  (15) Any unlawful sign.
§ 3.00    Portable Signs        Policy Statement:   In order to comply with the provisions of the Southern Building Code Congress  International Sections 3108 & 1707, no portable sign shall be allowed except as follows:    A) Permanent Portable Sign:  As defined in Section 2.0 (Shall be subject to the fee as   prescribed in the City Fee schedule) Such permit(s) shall be renewed on or before  January 1st of each year   B) Temporary Portable Sign:  As defined in Section 2.0, (MM), shall be subject to an  annual fee as prescribed in the city fee schedule which shall not be valid beyond  December 31 of the year in which it was issued.
A temporary Portable Sign must  receive an erection permit each time it is moved to a new location.
There will be no  charge for the erection permit.
The erection permit shall not be valid for a period in  excess of 90 days each calendar year per person.
§ 4.00    General Regulations Applying to All Signs.
In any zoning district within the City of Leeds, the following regulations shall apply:     A.
No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where, by reason of its   position, working, illumination, shape, symbol, color, form or character, it may  obstruct, impair, obscure, or interfere with the view.
Such signs shall be designed  and located in such a manner that would prevent them from being mistaken for any  authorized traffic sign, signal, or device.
They shall not interfere with, mislead,  confuse or disrupt traffic flow or traffic safety.
B.
Signs incorporating any noisy device (whistles, horns, noise makers, sirens, or any  other noisy audible devices) are expressly prohibited within the City of Leeds.
C. No sign of any type or foundation or support thereof shall be placed in a public street  or its right‐of‐way.
D. No sign with flashing, traveling or animated illumination shall be permitted in any  zone district within the City, with the exception of permanent signs located in  commercial districts providing public service information such as, but not limited to:  time, date, temperature, news or weather.
E. No illuminated sign, other than a permanent subdivision sign, shall be permitted  within fifty feet (50’) of any residential zone district of the City.
F. The area around all signs shall be kept clean and free of trash and all vegetation,  unless such area is a part of the landscaping associated with the sign.
In case of  which, such shall be well maintained.
In addition, it shall be the responsibility of the  sign owner/lessor or property owner to maintain all signs in a safe and proper  operating manner at all times.
G. No person shall park any vehicle or trailer on a public street or public parking area for  the sole purpose of advertising.
H. Snipe signs shall not be permitted in any zone district, except as may be authorized  by the City.
Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 128 of 139  I.
No permanent freestanding pole mounted ground sign of any type shall be permitted  within thirty‐five feet (35) of the intersection of the pavement edge lines to two (2)  public roads, unless the same is mounted at a height of at least ten feet (10’) from  the ground level at the base of the sign and upon poles or other means of support  which    J.
No sign shall occupy any portion of a parking space or aisle.
K. All signs shall conform to City Building Codes and/or common engineering practices,   which provides a comprehensive set of construction standards for signs.
These  specifications include wind loads, seismic loads, acceptable supports, allowable  stresses and electrical wiring and other components.
L. Professional signs for Home Occupations, where permitted, shall not exceed three (3)  square feet in area.
Such sign may be either a wall mounted or ground sign.
In the  case of ground signs, none shall be located any closer than twenty feet (20’) from the  street right‐of‐way.
M. All signs located along primary or interstate highways shall meet all the regulations of  the Alabama Department of Transportation, and shall require a permit from ADOT  before a permit is issued by the City.
§ 5.00    Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions.
A.
Except as may be otherwise provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following  signs are exempt from sign permit requirements and the provisions of this  Ordinance, subject, to meeting all the applicable regulations, codes and any City  policies concerning such signs.
1.
Permanent or temporary signs required to be posted by law.
2.
Permanent or temporary WARNING and NO TRESPASSING signs (snipe) signs   shall not be allowed.
3.
Permanent or temporary signs established by, or by order of, any government   agency or official body.
4.
Signs indicating the location of bus stops, taxi stands and similar transportation   facilities.
5.
Signs providing information concerning the location or use of accessory off‐street   parking facilities and/or loading facilities.
6.
Permanent or temporary signs required for the control of vehicular or pedestrian   traffic.
7.
Temporary holiday signs, banners, displays and decorations.
8.
Routine sign maintenance and repair, including changeable copy signs.
9.
Decorative flags and bunting for citywide celebrations, conventions and   commemorations when authorized by the City for a specified time period.
10.
One (1) construction sign per street frontage, located on the property, shall be   allowed where building is actually in progress under a current building permit.
This shall be a ground sign not to exceed thirty‐two (32) square feet in area, be  non‐illuminated and may include the names of persons and firms performing  such services, labor or supplying materials to the premises.
Such sign must be  removed before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 129 of 139  11.
Flags, banners or insignias of a governmental, religious, charitable or fraternal  organization.
12.
Integral, decorative or architectural features of buildings, except letters,  trademarks, or moving parts.
13.
Directory signs located inside the buildings they serve.
14.
Signs not exceeding three (3) square feet in area and bearing only property   numbers, post office box numbers or names of the occupants of the premises to  which the sign pertains.
15.
Window signs located in commercial zone districts, advertising activities,  services, goods or products available within the building, with a total area of  twenty percent (20%) or less of the window glass surface area.
16.
A permit shall be obtained by the responsible individual(s) or party/parties, from  the City of Leeds, to post all political campaign posters, signs, etc.
provided that  they do not create traffic hazards as a result of poor or improper placement.
The  said individual(s) or party/parties shall remove all such signs, posters, etc.
within  seventy‐two (72) hours of the end of the general or run‐off election or political  event to which they pertain.
Such signs shall not be illuminated in any manner  whatsoever.
[Snipe signs shall not be allowed]   17.
A permit shall be required, from the City of Leeds, to post signs, which advertise  yard sale or garage sales.
Such signs shall not be located in a manner, which  would obstruct or otherwise interfere with motorist’s vision.
These signs shall  not exceed four (4) square feet in sign area and shall not be illuminated in any  manner.
(Snipe signs shall not be allowed).
18.
Temporary, non‐illuminated signs, located in residential and agricultural districts,  not to exceed four (4) square feet in sign area, pertaining to agricultural products  raised on the premises.
(Snipe signs shall not be allowed).
19.
Temporary, non‐illuminated real estate signs, which are used to offer for sale,  lease, or rent of property upon which such signs is located.
(Snipe signs shall not  be allowed).
§ 6.00    Outdoor Advertising Signs Regulations.
Outdoor Advertising Sign shall not be permitted in the City of Leeds, except upon approval of the  Board of Zoning Adjustment and subject to the requirements set forth below:       1.
Outdoor Advertising Signs located on interstates, which are under State, and Federal  authority shall be required to meet their regulations pertaining to sign placement.
2.
Outdoor Advertising Signs shall be erected no closer than one thousand (1,000) feet  to another legally erected outdoor advertising sign, as measured along the same side  of the street or highway.
3.
Outdoor Advertising Signs on opposite side of the street or highway shall be no closer  than five hundred (500) feet to one another.
4.
Outdoor Advertising Signs may not be located within three hundred (300) feet of any  residential district as measured along the frontage of the same side of the street or  highway to which the sign is to be viewed.
5.
Existing Outdoor Advertising Signs must comply with these regulations when  removed, modified or replaced.
Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 130 of 139  6.
All signs shall be maintained at the level of appearance originally held at the time of  erection.
7.
Wattage for Outdoor Advertising Sign shall not exceed four hundred (400) watts per  bulb.
8.
Application/permit fee will be assessed for each outdoor advertising sign in  accordance with these regulations.
9.
Displays shall not include live, animated or pictorial displays, or any material  depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified  anatomical areas”.
10.
An annual permit fee, as described in the City of Leeds fee schedule, shall be required  for each Outdoor Advertising Sign structure.
Such fees shall be paid by January 31st of  each year; and no additional permits for any sign structure for which there are any  outstanding annual fees pending.
11.
The Board of Zoning Adjustments shall not permit billboards outside of an area along  and within one thousand (1000) feet of the Interstate 20 corridor.
§ 8.00  Signs Located in Residential Districts.
The following types of signs are permitted in Residential Zone Districts of the City of Leeds,  subject to specified requirements, unless otherwise provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance.
See § 3.00 Regulations Pertaining to Signs and § 6.00, Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions.
A.
For detached or attached single‐family, two‐family and multi‐family dwelling districts,   nameplates, not to exceed three (3) square feet in area shall be permitted for each  dwelling unit.
Such nameplates shall indicate the name and address of the premises,  the occupants thereof and announcements only.
(The indirect illumination of  nameplates is permissible).
B.
Professional signs for Home Occupations, where permitted, shall not exceed three (3)  square feet in area.
These may be mounted on walls or placed upon the ground;  such shall not be illuminated in any manner.
Such signs shall be of neutral colors or  earth tones.
Ground mounted signs shall not be located closer than twenty feet (20’)  from any street right‐of‐way.
C. Temporary, not‐illuminated ground signs advertising yard sales, garage sales or the  sale of personal property shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area and shall not  be located closer than twenty feet (20’) from any street right‐of‐way.
D. Permanent subdivision identification signs shall be ground mounted, with an area not  to exceed forty‐eight (48) square feet.
These may include a masonry wall,  landscaping and other similar materials or features, designed and intended to form a  display for subdivision or neighborhood identification.
If illuminated, such signs shall  utilize indirect illumination only.
The principal entrance to the subdivision and the  main street leading to the subdivision shall each adorn one (1) such sign.
These shall  not be located closer than fifteen feet (15’) from intersection of the subdivision  entrance.
E. Temporary subdivision identification signs shall be ground mounted with an area not  to exceed thirty‐two (32) square feet.
If illuminated, such signs shall utilize indirect  illumination only.
The principal entrance to the subdivision and the main street  leading to the subdivision may each have one (1) such sign.
Temporary signs shall be  located no closer than fifteen feet (15’) from the property line of the street to which     Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 131 of 139  it is directed and shall not be used concurrently with the permanent subdivision sign  referred to in D above.
F. For multi‐family and group dwellings, identification signs shall not exceed nine (9)  square feet in sign area.
Such signs shall indicate the name and address of the  premises and the name of the management only.
No sign shall be flushed with the  principal building.
Any lighted sign shall have indirect illumination only.
G. Permanent places of worship, schools, or other public building bulletin boards or  identification signs, including manually‐operated, changeable copy signs shall not  exceed thirty‐two (32) square feet in area.
These may be illuminated or non‐ illuminated and shall be located no closer than fifteen feet from a street right‐of‐way.
H. Signs permitted in planned residential districts shall be determined during the site  plan review process.
NOTE:  Billboards and signs containing animated, traveling or flashing lights are prohibited in all   residential zone districts of the City of Leeds.
§ 9.00  Signs Permitted in the B‐2 General Business District.
Permanent free‐standing, on premise, pole‐mounted or ground sign shall be permitted,  limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage of a street or lot, regardless of the  number of businesses located on the lot.
The following may be included:    A.
A permanent, on premise, free‐standing, pole‐mounted sign, illuminated or non‐  illuminated, shall not exceed thirty‐five (35) square feet of sign area, plus 1.2 square  feet of sign area per 1,000 square feet of lot area, but in no event shall such sign  exceed 48 square feet.
Such sign shall not exceed a height of twenty feet (20’) from  the ground level to the highest point on the sign.
It shall have a minimum clearance  of ten feet (10) from the ground level to the lowest point on the sign and shall be  located no closer than five feet (5’) from the edge of the property line.
No sign shall  be located on any public right‐of‐way.
B.
A permanent, on premise, ground  sign, either  illuminated or non‐illuminated, may  include  a masonry wall,  landscaping  and  similar  and  similar  features  or materials.
Such sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet  in sign area and fifteen feet (15’)  in  height measured from the ground  level to the highest point on the sign.
It shall be  located no closer than five feet (5’) from the property line.
No sign shall be located in  any public right‐of‐way.
C. In addition to either A or B mentioned above, attached, permanent, on premise   signs, illuminated or non‐illuminated, shall be permitted to one (1) business, per  street frontage; and, the following may be included:     1.
A wall or fascia sign, either illuminated or non‐illuminated shall be limited to one   (1) per street frontage, provided no other signs for such establishment are  located more than thirty‐six inches (36”) from the face of the building upon  which it is mounted.
It shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in sign area and  shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10’) from the lowest point on the     Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 132 of 139  sign to the ground level or sidewalk on which it stands.
Such signs shall not  project into any public right‐of‐way.
[See Illustration of sign type below].
2.
A Projecting Sign either illuminated or non‐illuminated, shall be attached to the   wall of the establishment it serves, provided no other signs for such  establishment as located on the same building wall; and, such sign shall not  project outward more than thirty‐six inches (36”) from the face of the building  upon which it is mounted.
It shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and  shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10’) from the lowest point on the  sign to the ground level or sidewalk on which it stands.
3.
A roof sign, illuminated or non‐illuminated, limited to one (1) per street frontage,   per establishment, shall be located within a selected sign able area.
A sign able  area, for a roof sign, shall not extend beyond the dimensions of a mansard roof,  penthouse, or, an architectural roof element on which it is located.
Se definition  of Sign able Area in the definition section of this Article.
The vertical dimensions  of a sign able wall area shall not exceed sign feet (6’) in height.
The size of such  signs shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the sign able wall area.
NOTE:  Billboards shall not be permitted in the B‐2 General Business District.
§ 10.00 Signs Located in Shopping Centers and Office Parks        1.
There shall be an architectural harmony and unity of signs within a shopping center  of unified business center on a property including an office park.
The sign type, color  scheme, size and method of illumination (if illuminated), shall be coordinated and  compatible with the architecture of the center.
2.
Either a permanent, freestanding pole mounted or ground sign, illuminated or non‐ illuminated, shall be permitted to identify a shopping center.
In addition, wall or  fascia signs for each establishment within the center shall be permitted, with all signs  subject to the height, dimensional requirements and restrictions of Section 9.0 A and  B for permanent, freestanding, pole mounted or ground signs.
3.
Billboards shall not be permitted O‐1 Office Building District.
4.
Canopies, Marquees, or fixed awnings, subject to the provisions of the City Building   Code.
§ 11.00 Signs Permitted in the I‐1 Light Industrial District and the I‐2 Heavy Industrial Districts.
Permanent, free‐standing, on premise, pole‐mounted or ground signs shall be permitted,  limited to one (1) such sign per street frontage of a street or lot, regardless of the  number of businesses located on the lot.
The following may be included:    A.
A permanent, on premise, free‐standing, pole‐mounted sign, illuminated or non‐  illuminated, shall not exceed thirty‐five (35) square feet in sign area plus 1.2 square  feet of sign area per 1,000 square feet of lot area, but in no event shall such sign  exceed forty‐eight (48) square feet in sign area, Such sign shall not exceed a height of  thirty feet (30’) from the ground level to the highest point on the sign.
It shall have a  minimum clearance of ten feet (10’) from the ground level to the lowest point on the     Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 133 of 139  sign and shall not be located any closer than fifteen feet (15’) from the edge of the  property line.
No sign shall be located on any public right‐of‐way.
[See illustration of  sign type in 9.0 A of the B‐2 General Business District]   B.
A permanent, on premise, ground sign, either illuminated or non‐illuminated may  include a masonry wall, landscaping and similar features and materials.
Such sign  shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet in sign area and fifteen feet (15’) in height  measured from the ground level to the highest point on the sign.
Such sign shall not  be located any closer than fifteen feet (15’) from the property line.
No sign shall be  located on any public right‐of‐way.
C. In addition to either A or B mentioned above, attached, permanent, on premise  signs, illuminated or not‐illuminated, shall be limited to one (1) per business, per  street frontage, and the following may be included:     1.
A Wall or Fascia sign either illuminated or non‐illuminated, shall be attached to   the wall of the establishment it serves, provided no other signs for such  establishment are located on the same building wall.
Such signs shall not extend  above the roof line or project more than twelve inches (12’”) outward from the  building upon which it is mounted.
Wall signs, which identify the rear entrance  of the principal building, may be permitted, provided it is non‐illuminated and  does not exceed ten (10) square feet in sign area.
[See illustration of sign type in  C.1 of the B‐2 General Business District]   2.
A Projecting Sign either illuminated or non‐illuminated, shall be attached to the  wall of the establishment it serves, provided no other signs for such  establishment are located on the same building wall; and, it shall not project  outward more than thirty‐six inches (36”) form the face of the building upon  which it is mounted.
It shall not exceed sixteen (15) square feet in sign area and  shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10’) from the lowest point on the  sign to the ground level or sidewalk on which it stands.
(See illustration of sign  type C. (2) of the B‐2 General Business District]     D. Billboards shall not be permitted in the I‐1 and I‐2 Industrial Districts.
§ 12.00   Signs Permitted in the A‐1 Agricultural District.
The following signs shall be permitted in the A‐1 Agricultural District:       A.
Those types of signs permitted in the Residential Districts as listed in §8.00 of this Article.
B.
Signs customarily incidental to uses permitted in the Agricultural District.
NOTE:  Also, see § 6.00, of this Article, Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions and § 5.00, Regulations  Pertaining to All Signs.
§13.00    Construction and Maintenance of Signs.
All signs shall comply with the following construction and maintenance requirements and    regulations:        Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 134 of 139  A.
All signs shall conform to the City of Leeds Building and other construction codes.
These  specifications include wind loads, vibration resistance, seismic loads, acceptable supports,  allowable stresses, materials and electrical wiring and components.
B.
All signs and all components thereof, including structural supports, shall be kept in a state of  good repair.
C. The areas surrounding the base of any freestanding sign shall be kept clean of trash, debris  and undergrowth.
D. No person may, for the purpose of increasing or enhancing the visibility of any sign, damage,  trim, destroy or remove any trees, shrubs or other vegetation within any right‐of‐way or on  any area where landscaping is required under City regulations, unless express written  authorization is obtained from the agency having jurisdiction over the said right(s)‐of‐way.
§14.00    Required Permits, Fees and Inspections.
A.
Permits Required:     1.
Except where this Article explicitly exempts a sign, all signs erected shall require a sign  permit issued by the City Building Inspector and fee as indicated in the fee schedule.
2.
Whether a sign is exempt or not, an electrical permit shall be required for all illuminated  signs.
3.
All Outdoor Advertising Sign to be located within six hundred and sixty feet (660’) of the  nearest edge of the right‐of‐way of a highway on the Interstate or National Highway  System – Urban and Rural Routes, shall file an application for a permit with the State of  Alabama Highway Department as required by the Highway Beautification Act – Outdoor  Advertising.
B.
Application Forms:     1.
Each application for a sign permit shall include the following:    a.
The name, signature and address of the property owner or the authorized agent of   the property owner and that of the sign contractor.
b.
The address of the property owner where the sign is to be located.
c. The lot area, sign district, zoning district and principal land use(s) on the lot where   the sign is to be erected.
d. A complete description of the sign(s) to be erected, including, but not limited to, the   number, type, method of illumination (if illuminated), size, height, etc.
e. A scaled drawing of the sign and a plot plan showing the location of each sign on the   lot.
All other details, sufficient for the Building Inspector to determine compliance with  the requirements of this Article, which may include a building elevation, survey or  other drawings or any documentation deemed satisfactory by the City of Leeds to  assess a permit for the sign.
§15.00    Issuance Denial.
When a permit is denied by the Building Inspector, he or she shall serve a written notice  to the concerned applicant explaining in detail the reason or reasons why such denial     Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 135 of 139  was issued.
A copy of the said statement shall be made as an attachment to the permit  application.
§ 16.00   Appeals of Permit Denial     An appeal, concerning the denial of a permit, may be taken to the Zoning Board of  Adjustment by the concerned applicant.
§17.00    Permit Fees.
Applications for permits shall be filed with the City Building Inspector, together with a  permit fee, as specified by the Building Inspector, for each sign, in accordance with this  Ordinance.
The building permit fees shall be determined by the City in the same manner  as the fees for building permits.
Off‐Premises Advertising signs shall be subject to annual  permit fee as designated in the City‐Fee Schedule.
§ 18.00   Inspection of Signs.
The person erecting, altering, relocating, enlarging or converting any sign shall notify the  Building Inspector of the completion of such work for which permits were required and  issued.
See § 6.00, of this Article, Exempt Signs, Permit Exemptions.
§ 19.00   Unlawful Signs.
Every sign in the City of Leeds shall be maintained in good structural condition at all  times.
The Building Inspector may inspect and shall have the authority to order the  painting; repair, alteration, movement or removal of signs, which are dilapidated or  abandoned, or which constitute a physical hazard to public safety.
Any repair, painting,  alteration, relocation or removal shall be at the sign owner’s expense.
See § 19.00 and §  2.00 of this Article below.
§ 20.00   Confiscation of Signs Located on Public Right‐Of‐Way.
Any sign installed, erected or placed on a public right‐of‐way, except in conformance with  the requirements of this Ordinance, shall be forfeited to the public and subject to  confiscation following proper written notification of such violation to the property owner  and/or sign owner.
In addition to the other remedies provided for under this Article, the  City of Leeds shall have the right to recover from the owner or person placing the sign,  the full cost of removal and disposal.
§ 21.00   Abandoned Signs.
Except as may otherwise be provided for in this Article, any sign that is located on  property which becomes vacant and is occupied for a time period of four (4) months or  more or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no longer applies,  shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
Permanent signs applicable to a business,  temporarily suspended because of a change in ownership or management, shall not be  deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of nine (9) months     Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 136 of 139  or more.
An abandoned sign is prohibited and shall be removed by the owner of the sign  or owner of the premises.
§22.00    Misleading Signs.
All signs, for business and other commercial or industrial establishments that are no  longer in operation, shall be removed within ninety (90) days of the disuse of such  establishment.
The removal of such misleading signs shall be the responsibility of the  owner of that sign.
§ 23.00   Notification.
All notices mailed by the Building Inspector shall be sent by Certified Mail.
Any time  period, provided in this Section, shall be deemed to commence of the date of the receipt  of the certified mail.
The notice shall be mailed to the owner of the property, on which  the sign is located, as shown on the latest available tax records and maps, as well as the  occupant, which the sign serves.
Any person or persons with an interest in the sign or  the property may appeal the determination of the Building Inspector.
The Building  Inspector’s order of the removal of the sign or the measures necessary to bring the sign  into compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance may be appealed with the City of  Zoning Board of Adjustment in writing.
This application must be filed within thirty (30)  days of the date the Building Inspector’s notice for the removal of a sign/sign(s) was  mailed.
§ 24.00   Removal of Sign.
The Building Inspector shall order the removal of any sign that endangers public safety.
Signs that are abandoned, dangerous, materially inadequate, electrically or structurally  defective; signs for which not permits have been approved and issued; failure to renew  permit, etc.
shall be cited for violations.
The Building Inspector shall issue a detailed  description of the violation or violations and advise that these be corrected within a  period of thirty (30) days.
Failure on the part of the party or parties notified of such  violations to rectify all the cited violations shall result in the removal of the sign(s) in  accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
Any sign installed or placed within the  City, except in conformance with the requirements of this Ordinance, shall be forfeited to  the public, and shall be subject to confiscation.
In addition to other remedies provided  under this Article, the City shall have the right to recover, from the owner or person  placing such a sign, the full cost of removal and disposal as described in §20.00 above.
§ 25.00   Annual Inspection.
The Building Inspector shall inspect annually, or at such other times as he deems  necessary, each sign or other advertising structure regulated by this chapter for the  purpose of ascertaining whether the same is secure or insecure, and whether it is in need  of removal or repair.
Article X  Sign Regulations  Zoning Ordinance          Page 137 of 139  § 26.00   Right of Entry    Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this code,  or whenever the Building Inspector has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in  any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which renders such  building, structure, premises, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems unsafe,  dangerous or hazardous, the Building Inspector shall have the authority to enter such  building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform  any duty imposed upon the Building Inspector by this code.
If such building or premises  are occupied, the Building Inspector shall first present proper credentials and request  entry.
If such building, structure, or premises are unoccupied, the Building Inspector  shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or  control of such and request entry.
If entry is refused, the Building Inspector shall have  recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
When the Building Inspector shall have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or  other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner, occupant or any other person  or persons having charge, care or control of any building, structure, or premises shall fail  or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided to promptly permit entry  therein by the owner of Building Inspector for the purpose of inspection and examination  pursuant to this Ordinance.
Article Legal Status Provisions  Zoning Ordinance          Page 138 of 139  ARTICLE XI     LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS     § 1.00    Interpretation of Uses    In their interpretation of an application, the provisions of this Ordinance shall be  considered minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health,  safety, morals, conveniences, order, prosperity and general welfare of the City and its  residents.
Where other Ordinances or regulations, which may be adopted hereafter,  impose greater restrictions than those specified herein, compliance with such other  ordinances or regulations is mandatory.
This Ordinance shall not lower the restriction of  plats, deeds, or private contracts, if such are greater than the provisions of this  Ordinance.
§ 2.00    Savings Clause    If any section, clause, provision or position of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or  unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any  other article, section, clause, provision or portion of this Ordinance that is not in and of  itself invalid or unconstitutional.
§ 3.00    Repeal of Existing Ordinances    All zoning ordinances heretofore adopted by the City of Leeds are hereby repealed;  provided, however, that nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to modify or in any  manner permit, extend or enlarge any non‐conforming property or improvement at the  time of adoption of this Ordinance, but such non‐conforming use shall continue to be  subject to all restrictions and limitations existing at the time of adoption of this  Ordinance related to such non‐conforming use.
No non‐conforming use, existing at the  time of adoption of this Ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended, or expanded, unless  such use is changed to a use, which will conform to the regulations of the district in  which such property is located.
§ 4.00    Effective Date     This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its adoption, approval and  publication, as provided for by law.
ADOPTED AND APPROVED this _____________ day of ______________, 2015.
_______________________________            Honorable David Miller, Mayor            City of Leeds, Alabama   ATTEST: _____________________________                 Kevin Fouts, City Clerk     Appendix  Zoning Ordinance          Page 139 of 139  APPENDIX                                                                                           A ‐1  (X  ‐A xis)  E‐1 R ‐1  R ‐2  R ‐3  R ‐3 ‐A  R ‐3 ‐T  R G  P U D  R M H P  R M H S  O ‐1  B ‐1  B ‐2  B ‐3  I‐1 I‐2  M R  P C D  A ‐1  (Y  ‐A xis)  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R SB   2 5 '  SB  2 5 '  SB  2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R R  E‐1 R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  SB  2 5 '  SB  2 5 '  SB  2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R R  R ‐1  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R SB   2 5 '  SB  2 5 '  SB  2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R R  R ‐2  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R SB   2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R R  R ‐3  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R SB   2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  R ‐3 ‐A  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R SB   2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  R ‐3 ‐T  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R SB   2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  R G  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R SB   2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  R ‐5  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R SB   2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  R ‐6  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R SB   2 5 '  SB  3 0 '  R B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  P U D  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R  R M H P  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  R M H S  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  0 ‐1  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  B ‐1  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A R  R R  R R  R R  R R  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A  B ‐2  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  R R  R R  R R  R B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B ‐3  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  0 ' B /B Y 5  ' A B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  R R  R R  R R  R B Y 1  5 ' B /B Y 1  0 ' A  I‐1 B Y 6  0 ' C /B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 2  0 ' A  B Y 6  0 ' B /B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 2  0 ' A  B Y 6  0 ' C /B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 2  0 ' A  B Y 6  0 ' C /B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 2  0 ' A  B Y 2  0 ' B /B Y 1  5 ' A  B Y 2  0 ' B /B Y 1  5 ' A  B Y 2  0 ' B /B Y 1  5 ' A  B Y 6  0 ' C /B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 2  0 ' A  B Y 6  0 ' C /B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 2  0 ' A  B Y 6  0 ' C /B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 2  0 ' A  B Y 6  0 ' C /B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 2  0 ' A  R R  R R  R R  R B Y 6  0 ' C /B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 2  0 ' A  I‐2 B Y 1  0 0 ' C /B Y 7  5 ' B /B Y 5  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 0 ' C /B Y 7  5 ' B /B Y 5  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 0 ' C /B Y 7  5 ' B /B Y 5  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 0 ' C /B Y 7  5 ' B /B Y 5  0 ' A  B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 3  0 ' A  B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 3  0 ' A  B Y 4  0 ' B /B Y 3  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 0 ' C /B Y 7  5 ' B /B Y 5  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 0 ' C /B Y 7  5 ' B /B Y 5  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 0 ' C /B Y 7  5 ' B /B Y 5  0 ' A  B Y 1  0 0 ' C /B Y 7  5 ' B /B Y 5  0 ' A  R R  R R  R R  R B Y 1  0 0 ' C /B Y 7  5 ' B /B Y 5  0 ' A  M R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R  P C D  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  R R  K ey  1 st K  ey  SB  = Setb  ack ( A  setb  ack is th e d  istan ce b  etw een   th e p  ro p erty lin  e an d  w h ere a p  erm en  an t stru  ctu re m  ay b e co  n stru  cted .
Lim  ited  co  n stru  ctio n  m  ay take p lace, su  ch  as sh  ed s an  d  p arkin  g)  B Y = B  u fferyard   (O n ly o  p en   sp ace an  d  d rain  age areas m ay b  e p laced   w ith  in  th  e b u fferyard  )  R = R  egu lar setb  ack req u ired   fo r th  e zo n in g d  istrict.
(B u fferin  g an d /o r screen  in g are n  o t req  u ired  )  2 n d  K ey  D istan  ce in  feet   Th e seco  n d  letter d  en o tes th  e typ e o  f screen in g req  u ired   fo r th  at p articu  lar zo n e/lan  d  u se.
(R  efer to  th  e D esign   stan d ard  s fo r screen   stan d ard  s).
A = O  p aq u e Screen  B = Sem  i‐o p aq u e Screen  C = B  ro ken   Screen  Proposed Use  A d jace  n t U  se  P age 1   o f 1   	O2015-06-06 	2015-FINAL
ARTICLE 1.
- TITLE, LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS AND OFFICIAL ZONING MAP   Sec.
1.1.
- Title.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "the zoning ordinance of the City of Opp, Alabama."
Sec.
1.2.
- Short title.
This ordinance and all subsequent amendments, attachments, and supplements thereto shall be known as the "Opp Zoning Ordinance."
Sec.
1.3.
- Legal status provisions.
1.3.1.
Authority.
This ordinance has been drafted, subjected to public review, recommended by the Opp Planning Commission, and adopted by the Opp City Council under the authority of title 11, chapter 52 of the Code of Alabama, 1975 Compilation, as amended [Code of Ala. 1975, § 11-52-1 et seq.].
1.3.2.
Purpose.
The purpose of this ordinance is to guide development within the City of Opp in accordance with title 11, chapter 52 of the Code of Alabama, 1975 Compilation, as amended [Code of Ala. 1975, § 11-52-1 et seq.
]; and generally, to implement and support the developmental policies of the City of Opp.
1.3.3.
Interpretation.
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this ordinance, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare.
1.3.4.
Conflict with other ordinances.
In case of a conflict between this ordinance or any part thereof, and the whole or part of any existing or future ordinance of the city, the most restrictive shall in all cases apply.
1.3.5.
Validity, severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, item or any provision of this ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other article, section, subsection, or part thereof of this ordinance which is not of itself invalid or unconstitutional.
1.3.6.
Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
On the effective date of this ordinance, all other local ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict or inconsistent with this ordinance, and all amendments thereto, are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give this ordinance full force and effect.
Sec.
1.4.
- Official zoning map.
The city is hereby divided into zones or districts, as shown on the official zoning map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance.
1.4.1.
The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor attested by the city clerk, and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: "This is to certify that this is the official zoning map of the City of Opp, Alabama," together with the date of the adoption of this ordinance.
1.4.2.
If changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered promptly after the amendment has been approved by the city council, hereinafter referred to as "the council."
No amendment to this ordinance shall become effective until after such change and entry has been made on said map.
1.4.3.
No changes of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map or matter shown thereon, except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this ordinance.
Any unauthorized changes of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this ordinance and punishable as described herein.
1.4.4.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map, which may from time-to-time be published, the official zoning map shall be located in the office of the city clerk and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, building, and other structures in the city.
1.4.5.
Replacement of the official zoning map.
1.
In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the council may, by resolution, adopt a new official zoning map, which shall supersede the prior official zoning map.
The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions on the prior official zoning map, but no such corrections shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning map or any subsequent amendment thereof.
The new official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor attested by the city clerk, and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: "This is to certify that this official zoning map supersedes and replaces the official zoning map adopted (date of adoption of map being replaced) as part of the zoning ordinance."
2.
Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
Sec.
1.5.
- Using this ordinance.
1.5.1.
Internal referencing.
All references to articles, sections, subsections, paragraphs and items within this ordinance shall refer to articles, sections, subsections, paragraphs and items in this ordinance unless otherwise specified.
When an article, section or other subdivision is referenced within a provision or requirement of this ordinance, unless otherwise specified, all subdivisions within such reference shall be assumed to be applicable.
1.5.2.
Page numbering.
Each article contains its own separate page numbering system.
The page numbers are prefixed by the respective article number.
As an example, page 10 of article 8 is designated page 8-10.
Editor's note— Subsection 1.5.2 is incorrect given the page numbering scheme used in this publication.
ARTICLE 2.
- DEFINITIONS   For the purposes of this ordinance, certain terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:   Sec.
2.1.
- Interpretation.
2.1.1.
The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
2.1.2.
The word "building" includes "structure."
2.1.3.
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
2.1.4.
The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
2.1.5.
The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the feminine gender shall include the masculine.
2.1.6.
The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
2.1.7.
The word "lot" includes the words "plot" or "parcel."
2.1.8.
Except as otherwise, provided herein, all words have their customary dictionary meaning.
The zoning official is authorized to make a final determination of the meaning of any term used in this ordinance, which determination may be appealed to the board.
Sec.
2.2.
- Definitions of terms used in this ordinance.
2.2.1.
Abutting: Touching along a common side, boundary or property line.
Two pieces of property that are separated by a right-of-way are "adjacent," but not "abutting."
2.2.2.
Access: A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a property.
2.2.3.
Accessory structure or accessory building: A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
2.2.4.
Accessory use: A use of land or of a building or portion thereof commonly associated with and integrally related to the principal use of the land or building on the same lot.
2.2.5.
Adjacent: Either abutting or on the opposite side of a street, right-of-way, or easement that separates it from the subject property.
Properties separated by a railroad shall not be considered "adjacent."
2.2.6.
Adjoining: See "Abutting."
2.2.7.
Agriculture: The production, storage, keeping, harvesting, grading, packaging, processing, boarding or maintenance, for sale, lease, or personal use, of plants and animals, including, but not limited to: forages and sod crops; grains and seed crops; dairy animals and products; poultry and poultry products; the keeping, raising and breeding of livestock; bees and apiary products; fur animals; trees and forest products; fruits, nuts and vegetables; plants and flowers; or lands that are devoted to soil conservation or forestry management.
2.2.8.
Alley: A public or private way, other than a driveway, less in width than a street, designed for the special accommodation of the property it reaches, and not intended for general circulation.
2.2.9.
Alteration: Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior partitions, as well as any change in doors or windows or any enlargement to a building or structure, whether horizontally or vertically, or the moving of a building or structure from one location to another.
2.2.10.
Animal shelter: A nonprofit or public facility providing shelter for small domestic animals.
2.2.11.
Applicable district: That zoning district in which a building, structure, property, or subdivision, for which a zoning application is submitted or permit is sought, is located or is to be moved.
2.2.12.
Applicant: A person submitting an application for development, variance, special, exception, conditional use or rezoning.
2.2.13.
Assisted living facility: A building, portion of a building, or a group of buildings in which room, board, meals, laundry, and assistance with personal care and other services are, provided for not less than 24 hours in any week to at least two ambulatory adults not related by blood or marriage to the owner and/or administrator and licensed by the State of Alabama.
2.2.14.
Automotive repair, major: An establishment engaged in the repair and maintenance of vehicles, including painting, body work, rebuilding of engines or transmissions, upholstery work, fabrication of parts and similar activities, all of which shall be performed entirely within an enclosed building.
2.2.15.
Automotive repair, minor: An establishment engaged in sales, installation, and servicing of mechanical equipment and parts, including audio equipment and electrical work, lubrication, tune-ups, wheel alignment, tire balancing, brake and muffler work, battery charging and/or replacement and similar activities.
2.2.16.
Automotive sales or rental: An establishment engaged in the sale or rental of automobiles, light trucks, recreational vehicles, boats, [and] motorcycles, including the incidental parking, storage, maintenance, servicing and repair of such vehicles.
2.2.17.
Bakery, retail: An establishment, which bakes goods for on-premises retail sale only.
2.2.18.
Basement: A portion of a building located wholly or partially underground, having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height above the average grade of the adjoining ground.
2.2.19.
Bed and breakfast: A single-family detached dwelling, or part thereof, where lodging and meals are, provided on a daily basis; and in which the operator of the bed and breakfast resides.
2.2.20.
Bedroom: A room marketed, designed or otherwise intended to function primarily for sleeping.
2.2.21.
Block: A tract or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets other than alleys or a combination of streets, public land, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bodies of water or watercourses, or any other barrier to the continuity of development.
2.2.22.
Block, double-tiered: A block for single-family detached and duplex dwellings bounded on all sides by streets and within which lots front only on two of the surrounding streets.
The corner lots of such blocks are considered "standard corner lots."
2.2.23.
Board of Zoning Adjustment or board: The Board of Zoning Adjustment of Opp, Alabama.
2.2.24.
Boarding house: A single-family detached dwelling or part thereof in which, for compensation, lodging and meals are, provided on a weekly or monthly basis.
2.2.25.
Broadcast studio: An establishment primarily engaged in broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished through the use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms.
2.2.26.
Buffer: A strip of land that is landscaped to separate incompatible land uses, promoting visual harmony, reducing noise, diverting emissions, and reducing glare.
Buffers may consist of existing or planted trees, shrubs or vegetation, fences, walls or berms.
2.2.27.
Building: A structure, having a foundation and roof supported by columns, or by walls, designed to be used as a place of occupancy, storage or shelter.
2.2.28.
Buildable area: The portion of the lot remaining after required yards and buffers, if any, have been, provided.
2.2.29.
Building area: The portion of the lot occupied by the principal building and accessory and other structures.
2.2.30.
Building code or city building code: The International Building Code as adopted, and as may be amended, by the city council.
2.2.31.
Building height: For flat roof buildings, the vertical distance measured from grade level at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof.
For pitched-roof buildings, the vertical distance measured from grade level at the front of the building to the average of the eaves and ridges.
2.2.32.
Building line, front: A line extending across the width of a lot coincident with the front-most plane of the building, excluding eaves and cornices.
2.2.33.
Building official: The city official assigned by the city council to administer the city building code and provisions of this ordinance as specified herein, including his/her designee.
2.2.34.
Building, principal: The building in which is conducted the principal use of the concerned lot.
This includes any structures attached to such building, including a garage, carport, porte-cochere, or porch.
2.2.35.
Building spacing: The minimum distance between buildings measured from the outermost projection, excluding bay windows, chimneys, flues, ornamental features, cornices and eaves.
2.2.36.  Business office or professional office: A room or group of rooms used for the conduct of a business, profession, service, [or] industry and generally furnished with desks, tables and communications equipment.
2.2.37.  Business support service: A business which supplies support services primarily to business establishments, such as sales of office equipment, supplies and services; cleaning services; computer and office equipment repair and similar services.
2.2.38.
Campground: A plot of ground on which two or more campsites are located, established, or maintained for occupancy by camping units as temporary living quarters for recreation, education or vacation purposes.
2.2.39.
City: The City of Opp, Alabama.
2.2.40.
Club: A group of people organized for a common purpose to pursue common goals, interests and activities and usually characterized by certain membership qualifications, payment of fees or dues, which holds regular meetings and has a constitution or by-laws.
2.2.41.
Commercial parking: Parking of motor vehicles on a temporary basis within a commercially operated, off-street parking lot or garage.
2.2.42.
Commercial school: A private, gainful business providing instruction in arts, business, crafts, trades or professions.
2.2.43.
Communication tower: A transmission tower that either:   (1)  Serves an individual user and is not available to the general public;   (2)  Is privately owned and operated for the purpose of leasing tower space to others; and/or   (3)  Is a single-purpose facility and not part of a cellular network.
2.2.44.
Conditional use: A use that would not generally be appropriate throughout a zoning district without restriction(s), but which, if controlled as to number, location, area, size, traffic, noise, lighting or other impacts, would not be detrimental to public health.
This use is permitted subject to approval by the commission and council.
2.2.45.
Conservation subdivision or development: A form of development that permits a reduction in dimensional requirements, provided there is no increase in the overall density of the development, and the remaining land area is devoted to open space, recreation, or preservation of environmentally sensitive areas.
2.2.46.
Convenience store: A retail establishment, often associated with a gas station, selling food products and beverages, household items, newspapers, magazines and similar goods.
2.2.47.
Council or city council: The city council of the City of Opp.
2.2.48.
Country club: Land or buildings containing recreational facilities and clubhouses for private club members and their guests.
Facilities in which the primary function is the operation of a casino, nightclub, dance hall or bingo hall is [are] not considered a country club.
2.2.49.
Day care center: A licensed facility, other than a residence, providing care for part of a 24-hour day to children, elderly, handicapped or infirm persons in accordance with the applicable regulations of the State of Alabama.
2.2.50.
Density: The minimum required lot area per dwelling unit or the maximum number of dwelling units per acre of site area.
2.2.51.
Development: Any proposal to affect the use of land or structures including: subdivision; the construction, reconstruction, conversion, alteration, relocation or enlargement of a structure; any mining, dredging, fitting, grading, paving, excavation, drilling or disturbance of land; and, any use or extension of the use of the land.
2.2.52.
Dwelling: Any building or portion thereof, which is designed and used for residential occupancy.
2.2.53.
Dwelling, accessory: A dwelling located on the same lot of and that is subordinate to a detached, single-family dwelling.
Accessory dwellings are commonly referred to as guest houses, garage apartments, mother-in-law units or mews units.
2.2.54.
Dwelling, caretaker: A residence, incidental to a principal use, for an on-site manager, watchman or caretaker employed on the premises.
2.2.55.
Dwelling, duplex: A building containing two single-family dwelling units totally separated from each other by an unpierced wall extending from basement to roof.
2.2.56.
Dwelling, garden/patio home: A detached, single-family dwelling on a small lot that is permitted a zero-lot line on one side.
2.2.57.
Dwelling, multifamily: A building containing three or more dwelling units on a commonly shared lot.
2.2.58.
Dwelling, single-family (detached): A building containing one dwelling unit and that is not attached to any other dwelling by any means and is surrounded by open space or yards.
2.2.59.
Dwelling, townhouse: A single-family dwelling in a row of three to eight such units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no unit is located over another, and each unit is separated by one or more vertical common fire-resistant walls.
2.2.60.
Dwelling unit: One or more rooms occupied as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary facilities, provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single-family maintaining a household.
2.2.61.
Dwelling, upper-story: A dwelling unit located on a floor above a use of another type.
Upper-story dwellings may commonly be referred to as "loft apartments."
2.2.62.
Entertainment, indoor: A commercial establishment providing spectator entertainment within an enclosed building, including movie theaters, playhouses, concert halls, etc.
2.2.63.
Entertainment, outdoor: An establishment providing spectator entertainment in open or partially enclosed or screened facilities, including sports arenas, racing tracks, drive-in theaters, amusement parks, etc.
2.2.64.
Family: Any one of the following arrangements when living together in a dwelling as a single-housekeeping unit:   1.
An individual;   2.
Two or more persons related by legal adoption, blood, or a licit marriage plus up to two unrelated individuals;   3.
A group of not more than five unrelated persons.
2.2.65.
Farm: Land used primarily for agricultural purposes.
2.2.66.
Farm support business: A commercial establishment engaged in the sale of farm support goods and services, including, but not limited to, the following: the sale of feed, grains, fertilizers, pesticides and similar farm support goods; the provision of warehousing and storage facilities for raw farm products; and the provision of veterinary services to farm animals.
2.2.67.
Fence: An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
2.2.68.
Floor area, gross: The total area of a building measured using the outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or storage.
2.2.69.
Fowl: Chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, quail, guineas, etc.
2.2.70.
Front-accessed: Having vehicular access from the front of the property, requiring a driveway along a front lot line.
2.2.71.
Freight depot or truck terminal: An area and building where trucks load and unload cargo and freight and where the cargo and freight may be broken down or aggregated into smaller or larger loads for transfer to other vehicles or modes of transportation.
2.2.72.
Garden center or nursery: The growing, cultivation storage and sale of garden plants, trees, flowers, shrubs, and fertilizers, as well as the sale of garden tools and similar accessory and ancillary products, to the general public.
2.2.73.
Gas station: An establishment dispensing automotive fuels at retail.
A gas station that includes minor vehicle repair activities is considered a "service station."
2.2.74.
Grade level: For buildings, the average level of the finished grade at the front building line.
For trees, landscaping, signs and light fixtures, the level of finished grade at the base of the tree, plant, sign or fixture.
2.2.75.
Grocery store: A retail establishment primarily selling food for off-premises consumption and/or preparation, as well as other convenience and household goods.
2.2.76.
Group care home: A dwelling for the sheltered care of persons, which, in addition to providing food and shelter, may also provide some combination of personal care, social or counseling services, and transportation.
Group care homes are further defined and regulated by the State of Alabama.
2.2.77.
Home occupation: A business, profession, occupation or trade conducted for gain or support as an incidental activity within a dwelling.
2.2.78.
Home improvement center: A place of business providing building, yard and garden materials, appliances, tools and supplies at retail or wholesale.
2.2.79.
Hospital: An establishment providing primary health services and medical or surgical care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, and other abnormal physical or mental conditions and including as an integral part of the institution related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient facilities, training facilities, medical offices and staff residences.
2.2.80.
Hotel: A lodging establishment, in which guest rooms are accessed from the interior of the building.
Hotels may also include, as an incidental use, a liquor lounge.
2.2.81.
Improvement: Any permanent item that becomes a part of, is placed upon or is affixed to real estate.
2.2.82.
Independent living facility: A multifamily residential facility for the elderly.
These facilities may provide meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation, and social and recreational activities.
Such facilities do not provide, in a majority of the units, assistance with activities of daily living such as supervision of medication, bathing, dressing, toileting, etc.
2.2.83.
Industry or industrial use: Economic activities including resource extraction; construction; manufacturing; transportation, communication, electric, gas, and sanitary services; wholesale trade; and warehousing.
2.2.84.
Industry, heavy: Meat or poultry processing, slaughterhouses, resource extraction, the storage or manufacturing of flammable, explosive or toxic materials or other materials generally considered to be hazardous or offensive in nature.
2.2.85.
Industry, light: An industry characterized by one or more of the following:   1.
Smaller in bulk and area, employing fewer employees, and having lesser noise and other environmental impacts than heavy industries;   2.
Produce goods for end users rather than as intermediates for other industries;   3.
Produce goods of relatively high value per weight using moderate amounts of partially processed materials.
2.2.86.
Institutional use: Structures or land occupied by a group, cooperative, or other entity created for nonprofit purposes or for public use or services; but not including those of an industrial nature such as garages, repair or storage yards, and warehouses.
Institutional uses are further categorized as follows:   1.
Low intensity: places of assembly up to 250 seats; day care centers and group care homes; and nursing care facilities and other homes for the aged up to 10,000 sf.
2.
Medium intensity: government buildings up to 12,500 sf.
; elementary and junior high/middle school; places of assembly up to 500 seats; and health and other institutions up to 35,000 sf.
3.
High intensity: government buildings greater than 12,500 sf.
; places of assembly greater than 500 seats; high schools, universities, colleges, and junior colleges; health and other institutions greater than 35,000 sf.
; and stadiums and arenas.
2.2.87.
Internal street: A street completely contained within the boundaries of a planned development whether dedicated for public use or not.
2.2.88.
Junk yard: See "Salvage yard."
2.2.89.
Kennel: An establishment in which domesticated animals are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained, or sold, all for compensation.
2.2.90.
Landfill: A State-approved site for solid waste disposal employing an engineering method of disposing of solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading, compacting to the smallest volume and applying cover material over all exposed waste at the end of each operating day.
2.2.91.
Laundering plants: Establishments primarily engaged in high volume laundry and garment services, including commercial and industrial laundries; garment pressing and dry cleaning; linen supply; diaper service; carpet and upholstery cleaners, but excluding laundromats and dry-cleaning pick-up stations without dry cleaning equipment.
2.2.92.
Laundry services: Laundromat, laundry and dry-cleaning pick-up stations, dryer, and clothing storage, but excluding laundering plants.
2.2.93.
Liquor lounge: A licensed establishment engaged in the preparation, sale or serving of liquor for consumption on the premises only.
This includes but is not limited to the following terms: taverns, bars, cocktail lounges, nightclubs and similar uses where liquor consumption is a primary or incidental activity on the premises of the establishment.
2.2.94.
Livestock sales: The sale of animal livestock within an enclosed yard or structure, including livestock markets, horse or cattle auctions and similar activities.
2.2.95.
Lot: A parcel of land in one ownership, used or set aside and available for use as the site of one or more buildings and accessory structures or for any other permitted purpose.
2.2.96.
Lot, corner: A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersections or on two parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
1.
Non-standard corner lot: A corner lot on other than a double-tiered block.
Non-standard corner lots have two front yards, each abutting the front yards of the two interior lots adjoining it.
2.
Standard corner lot: A corner lot, for single-family detached and duplex dwellings, on a double-tiered block.
A standard corner lot has a front yard, abutting the front yard of the adjoining interior lot, and a street side yard abutting the same of the adjoining standard corner lot.
2.2.97.
Lot, interior: A lot other than a corner lot.
2.2.98.
Lot, reverse frontage: A through lot fronting on both a major street and a parallel, lesser street.
Reverse frontage lots may be required to have access from the lesser street.
2.2.99.
Lot, through: A lot that fronts on two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
2.2.100.
Lot area: The total area within the lot lines of a lot, excluding any rights-of-way.
2.2.101.
Lot frontage: The lot width measured at the front lot line.
2.2.102.
Lot line: A line bounding a lot which divides it from another lot or from a street or from any other public or private place.
2.2.103.
Lot line, front: The lot line separating a lot from a street right-of-way.
In the case of standard corner lots, there shall be a front lot line and a street side lot line.
The shorter of the two shall be the front lot line.
For all other corner lots, any lot line along a street frontage shall be considered a front lot line.
2.2.104.
Lot line, rear: That lot line which is parallel to and most distant from the front line.
In the case of a triangular or irregularly shaped lot, a line ten ft. in length, entirely within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
2.2.105.
Lot line, side: Any lot line other than a front lot line or a rear lot line.
2.2.106.
Lot line, street side: For standard corner lots, that lot line corresponding with the longer of the two street frontages.
2.2.107.
Lot of record: A lot that exists as shown or described on a plat or deed that has been recorded in the Office of the Probate Judge.
2.2.108.
Lot width: The minimum distance measured between the side lot lines at the front building line.
For corner lots, lot width is the distance measured between the side lot line and the opposite lot line.
2.2.109.
Maintenance service: An establishment providing building and yard maintenance services, such as janitorial services, exterminating services, landscaping services, window cleaning services, office cleaning services and similar uses.
2.2.110.
Manufactured homes:   1.
Class A manufactured home: A double-wide or larger manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976 that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction and that satisfies the criteria in § 6.7 and where the manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its width.
2.
Class B manufactured home: A single-wide manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976 that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction.
3.
Class C manufactured home: A manufactured home built before 1976 that does not meet the definition of a Class A or Class B manufactured home.
Class C manufactured homes are not allowed in the city, except as existing structures permitted prior to the adoption of this ordinance.
2.2.111.
Manufactured home lot: A lot designed for the siting of a manufactured home in a manufactured home subdivision.
2.2.112.
Manufactured home space: A space designed for the siting of a manufactured home within a manufactured home park.
2.2.113.
Manufactured home subdivision: A subdivision designed and intended for the siting of Class A manufactured homes.
2.2.114.
Manufactured home park: Land used or designed to accommodate a manufactured home community of multiple spaces for rent or lease.
2.2.115.
Manufacturing: Industrial uses that involve the processing and manufacturing of materials or products and the incidental storage, sale and distribution of such products.
2.2.116.
Manufacturing, heavy: The manufacture, predominantly from extracted or raw materials of finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and packing of such products.
2.2.117.
Manufacturing, light: The manufacture, predominantly from previously prepared materials of finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and packing of such products.
2.2.118.
Medical clinic: A facility providing medical, psychiatric or surgical services for sick or injured persons exclusively on an outpatient basis.
2.2.119.
Medical support service: A place of business, which supplies medical support services to individuals, medical practitioners, clinics and hospitals, including, but not limited to, a pharmacy, medical and surgical supply store, and an optician.
2.2.120.
Mini-warehouse: A structure group of structures partitioned for leasing of individual storage spaces and is exclusively used for the storage of non-volatile, non-toxic and non-explosive materials.
2.2.121.
Mixed use or mixed use development: The combination of a residential use with commercial and/or lodging uses on the same site or within the same building.
2.2.122  Modular Home: A structure built in sections or parts that are manufactured offsite and delivered to and installed on a lot.
Not to be confused with manufactured homes, modular homes do not have frame, tongue, and/or axles and wheels.
2.2.123.
Motel: A lodging establishment, in which guest rooms are accessed from the exterior of the building.
Motels may also include, as an incidental use, a liquor lounge.
2.2.124.
Nonconformities: Lawful uses of lots, structures or characteristics of uses, which, as a result of amendment to this ordinance, no longer conform to all applicable zoning provisions.
2.2.125.
Nonresidential: Land uses including agricultural, institutional, commercial, lodging and industrial activities.
Mixed-use developments shall also be considered nonresidential uses.
2.2.126.
Nursing care facility: A licensed institution providing skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower level than that, provided in a hospital but at a higher level than, provided in an assisted or independent living facility.
2.2.127.
Office: See "Business office."
2.2.128.
Open air market: Retail sales of arts, crafts, produce, discount or used goods, which are located partially or wholly outside of an enclosed building.
This may include produce market, craft market, farmers market or similar activities.
2.2.129.
Open space, common: Land area within a development owned and maintained by the developer or held in common ownership and maintained by a property owner's association for all of the owners for recreation, protection of natural land features, amenities or buffers; is freely accessible to all owners of the development; and, is required by this ordinance to remain in such use.
2.2.130.
Outdoor storage: The keeping, in an unenclosed area, of any goods, materials, merchandise, products or vehicles in the same place for more than 48 hours.
2.2.131.
Owner: The person having the right and legal title to, beneficial interest in or a contractual right to purchase a lot or parcel of land, or their authorized designee.
2.2.132.
Park: Publicly owned and operated parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities and open spaces.
Parks owned and operated by a property owners association are referred to as "common open spaces."
2.2.133.
Personal service: An establishment primarily engaged in providing services involving the care of a person or their personal goods or apparel.
2.2.134.
Perimeter: The boundaries or borders of a lot, tract or parcel of land.
2.2.135.
Place of assembly: A facility used for and providing religious, fraternal, recreational, social, educational or cultural activities.
2.2.136.
Planning commission or commission: The planning commission of the City of Opp, Alabama.
2.2.137.
Premises: A lot, parcel, tract or plot or land together with the structures hereon.
2.2.138.
Printing establishment: Blue printing, copying, printing, engraving or other reproduction services.
2.2.139.
Property line: The lot line or boundary line.
2.2.140.
Public facility: Buildings providing public services, not otherwise defined in this section, including government offices, post offices, museums, libraries, transit stations, police and fire stations, emergency service stations, civil defense operations and similar uses.
2.2.141.
Public utility facility: A facility that provides public utility services to the public at large, including water and sewer, gas distribution, electric transmission and distribution, and cable transmission and distribution facilities.
2.2.142.
Rear-accessed: Having vehicular access by way of an alley or similar means and without a driveway along any front lot line.
2.2.143.
Recreation: A commercial establishment providing recreational or sports activities to participants, including bowling alleys, billiard parlors, video game centers, ice and roller skating rinks, driving ranges, miniature golf courses, conventional golf courses, swimming pools, tennis courts and other commercial recreational and sports activities.
2.2.144.
Recreational vehicle: A vehicular type portable structure without permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven and is designed primarily as a temporary living accommodation of recreational and camping purposes.
2.2.145.
Recycling center: Land, with or without buildings, upon which used materials are separated and processed for shipment for eventual reuse in new products.
2.2.146.
Recycling plant: A facility, other than a junk yard, in which recoverable resources, such as newspapers, magazines, books and other paper products; glass, metal cans and other products are recycled, reprocessed and treated to return such products to a condition in which they may be used again in new products.
2.2.147.
Research laboratory: A building or group of buildings in which are located facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation, but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products, except as incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory.
2.2.148.
Resource extraction: The removal of soil, sand, stone, chert, clay, gravel, limestone, or other minerals or similar materials, for commercial purposes, including quarries, sand and gravel operations, gas extraction, and mining operations, and the loading, sizing, crushing, and processing of such materials, and the incidental storage, sale and distribution of such materials.
2.2.149.
Restaurant, drive-in or drive-through: An establishment where food and drink are rapidly prepared for drive-through or drive-in service, but which also includes on-premises dining.
2.2.150.
Restaurant, standard: An establishment where food and drink are prepared, served and primarily consumed within the building where patrons are seated and served.
2.2.151.
Restaurant, take-out only: An establishment where food and drink are prepared and served for consumption off-premises only.
2.2.152.
Retail, general:   1.
General retail, enclosed retail sales of goods and services including, but not limited to; food sales, department stores, clothing stores, home furnishings, appliance stores, automobile parts and supply stores, video rental, gift shops, florist shops, hardware stores, specialty shops, jewelry stores, variety stores, sporting goods stores, antique shops, auction houses and similar retail activities.
2.
General retail, unenclosed retail sales of goods and services conducted partially or fully outside of a building, including, but not limited to, flea markets and similar activities.
2.2.153.
Salvage yard or junk yard: A lot or structure or part thereof, used primarily for the collecting, storage and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal or discarded material or for the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition or for the sale of parts thereof.
2.2.154.
School: A public or nonprofit school.
2.2.155.
Screen: To visually shield or obscure a building, structure or use from adjacent property or public view by means of opaque fencing, walls, berm or densely planted vegetation.
2.2.156.
Service station: A gas station that engages in minor vehicle repair activities.
2.2.157.
Shopping center: A group of commercial establishments located on a lot planned and developed in a unified manner and design with shared parking and driveway facilities and under a common ownership or management authority.
2.2.158.
Site: Land intended to have one or more buildings or intended to be subdivided into one or more lots.
2.2.159.
Special, exception use: A use that would not generally be appropriate in a zoning district without restriction(s), but which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would not be detrimental to public health, safety and general welfare.
See § 13.6.
2.2.160.
Story: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, the ceiling next above and including basements used for the principal use.
A top floor, in which the floor area with eight ft. or more of head clearance is 50 percent or less than the floor area of the story next below, is considered a "half story."
A basement is considered a story if its ceiling is more than five ft. above grade level or if it is used for residential purposes.
2.2.161.
Street: A vehicular way dedicated for public use including all land within the right-of-way.
Streets are further classified as:   1.
Arterial: A major street serving as a primary artery, intended to mainly carry through traffic and to connect major activity centers in the city, and as further classified following:   a.
Major arterials include US 331, US 84, AL 52, and AL 134. b.
Minor arterials include Florala Hwy, W Cummings Ave, Business 33, and E Stewart Ave.   2.
Collector: A street that collects traffic from an area and moves it to the arterial network while providing some access to abutting property, including, but not limited to: Opine Road, Old Perry Store Road, Maloy St, N Jackson St, Cool Springs Road, and Barnes St.  3.
Local street or minor street: A minor street used primarily for access to abutting properties.
2.2.162.
Street line: The right-of-way line of a street.
2.2.163.
Structure: A combination of materials that form a construction for use, occupancy, or ornamentation whether installed on, above or below the surface of land or water.
All buildings are structures but not all structures are buildings.
2.2.164.
Studio: A place of work for an artist, photographer or craftsman, including instruction, display, production and retail sales of materials produced on the premises.
2.2.165.
Subdivision: The division of a lot, tract or parcel or land into two or more lots, plats, sites or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or of building development.
Such term includes re-subdivision of land and when appropriate to the context relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or territory subdivided.
2.2.166.
Tree, canopy: A deciduous tree that reaches a mature height of at least 20 ft.   2.2.167.
Tree, understory: A deciduous tree that reaches a mature height of fifteen to 25 ft.   2.2.168.
Truck stop: An establishment involving the maintenance, servicing, storage or repair of commercial vehicles; the retail dispensing of motor vehicle fuels; and the sale of accessories or equipment for trucks and similar commercial vehicles.
Truck stops may include overnight accommodations or dining.
2.2.169.
Variance: A relaxation or waiver of the terms of this ordinance (other than use provisions) as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship.
2.2.170.
Vehicle and equipment sales, rental and service: An establishment engaged in the sale or rental of heavy trucks (over one ton), construction equipment, tractors farm implements and similar equipment, including the storage, maintenance and servicing of such vehicles and equipment.
2.2.171.
Veterinary hospital: A place where animals are given medical care and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental to the hospital use.
2.2.172.
Wholesaling establishment: An establishment primarily engaged in selling merchandise to other businesses, including retailers, industrial, commercial, institutional, or professional business users, other wholesalers, or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise to, such individuals or companies.
2.2.173.
Yard: A minimum open area unobstructed from the ground up extending along a lot line and inward to the structure.
The yard shall be measured as the shortest distance between the structure and the lot line.
1.
Front yard: A yard extending the full width of the lot between any building and the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at the closest point to the front lot line.
2.
Rear yard: A yard extending the full width of the lot between the principal building and the rear lot line and measured perpendicular to the building to the closest point of the rear lot line.
3.
Side yard: A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the principal building and the side lot line and measured perpendicular from the side lot line to the closest point of the principal building.
In some cases, there may be lots-of-record platted along dead end streets without cul-de-sac turnarounds.
In such cases there yards are defined as shown below.
In such cases, the side and rear yards are determined by the zoning official based on the arrangement of abutting lots.
4.
Street side yard: For standard corner lots, a yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the principal building and the street side lot line and measured perpendicular from the street side lot line to the closest point of the principal building.
2.2.174.
Zero lot line: A lot line with no required setback.
2.2.175.
Zoning official: The city official assigned by the city council to administer this ordinance, including his/her designee.
Sec.
2.3.
- Abbreviations used in this ordinance.
2.3.1.
BR—Bedroom.
2.3.2.
CR—County Road.
2.3.3.
Dr.—Drive.
2.3.4.
DU—Dwelling Unit.
2.3.5.
EQ—Equal.
2.3.6.
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration.
2.3.7.
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency.
2.3.8.  ft.—Foot or feet.
2.3.9.
GFA—Gross Floor Area.
2.3.10.
GLA—Gross Leasable Area.
2.3.11.  max.—Maximum.
2.3.12.  min.—Minimum.
2.3.13.  na—Not applicable.
2.3.14.  oc—On center.
2.3.15.
PL—Property line or Lot Line.
2.3.16.
ROW—Right-of-way.
2.3.17.  sf—Square feet.
2.3.18.
%—Percent.
2.3.19.
§—Section, subsection, paragraph or item within this ordinance or other regulations, as specified.
ARTICLE 3.
- ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS   Sec.
3.1.
- Districts.
For the purposes of this ordinance, the city is hereby divided into the types of districts designated as follows:   3.1.1.
AR Agricultural and Recreational.
3.1.2.
R-1 Low Density Residential.
3.1.3.
R-2 Medium Family Residential.
3.1.4.
R-3 Single and Two-family Residential.
3.1.5.
R-4 Multifamily Residential.
3.1.6.
R-5 Group Housing Residential.
3.1.7.
P-1 Planned Unit Development.
3.1.8.
P-2 Planned Neighborhood Development.
3.1.9.
P-3 Planned Industrial Development.
3.1.10.
T-1 Manufactured Home.
3.1.11.
C-1 Central Business.
3.1.12.
C-2 Neighborhood Business.
3.1.13.
C-3 General Commercial.
3.1.14.
C-4 Regional Commercial.
3.1.15.
INST Institutional.
3.1.16.
M-1 Light Manufacturing.
3.1.17.
M-2 Heavy Manufacturing.
Sec.
3.2.
- District boundaries.
The boundaries of the above districts are hereby established as shown on the official zoning map.
3.2.1.
Boundary interpretations.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:   1.
Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
2.
Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
3.
Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be construed as following such city limits.
4.
Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to be mid-way between the main tracks.
5.
Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to follow such shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line, it shall be construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such center lines.
6.
Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated in paragraphs 1 through 5 above shall be so construed.
Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by the scale of the map.
7.
When physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the official zoning map or in circumstances not covered by paragraphs 1 through 6 above, the board of zoning adjustment, hereinafter referred to as "the board," shall interpret the district boundaries.
8.
Where a district boundary line divides a lot, which was in single ownership at the time of passage of this ordinance, the board may permit, as a special, exception, the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot not to exceed 50 ft. beyond the district line into the remaining portion of the lot.
ARTICLE 4.
- NONCONFORMITIES   Sec.
4.1.
- Purpose of regulations.
Within the districts established by this ordinance, as amended, there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures and characteristics of use which were lawful before this ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this ordinance or future amendment.
It is the intent of this ordinance to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival.
It is further the intent of this ordinance that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
4.1.1.
Nonconforming uses are declared by this ordinance to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved.
A nonconforming use of a structure, land, or structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after the passage of this ordinance by attachment on a building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off-premises, or by the addition of other uses, of a nature that would be prohibited generally in the district involved.
4.1.2.
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance and upon which actual building construction has been carried on diligently.
1.
Actual construction is hereby defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner.
2.
Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to building, such excavation or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that work shall be carried on diligently.
Sec.
4.2.
- Nonconforming lots of record.
4.2.1.
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any lot of record at the effective date of this ordinance, or amendment thereto, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this ordinance.
Such lot must be in separate ownership and not continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
This provision shall apply even though a lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the districts, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the applicable district.
4.2.2.
Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only through action of the board.
4.2.3.
If two or more lots or combination of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the effective date of this ordinance, or amendment thereto, and if all parts of the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this ordinance, and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this ordinance nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or area below the requirements stated in this ordinance.
Sec.
4.3.
- Nonconforming uses of land.
Where at the time of passage lawful use of land exists, which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this ordinance, and where such use involves no individual structure with a replacement cost less than $1,000.00 (determined by the building official), the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:   4.3.1.
No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of this ordinance or amendment thereto.
4.3.2.
No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or part to any portion of the lot or parcel than that occupied by such use at the effective date of this ordinance or amendment thereto.
4.3.3.
If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period of more than 30 consecutive days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this ordinance for the applicable district.
4.3.4.
No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this ordinance shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
Sec.
4.4.
- Nonconforming structures.
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of this ordinance, or amendment thereto, that could not be built under the terms of this ordinance by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:   4.4.1.
No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way that increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
4.4.2.
Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of structure be destroyed by any means to a condition exceeding more than 50 percent of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity with this ordinance.
4.4.3.
Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the applicable district.
Sec.
4.5.
- Nonconforming uses of structures or of structures and premises in combination.
If lawful use involving individual structures with a replacement cost of $1,000.00 or more (determined by the building official) or of structures and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of this ordinance, or amendment thereto, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to:   4.5.1.
No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this ordinance in the applicable district shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the applicable district.
4.5.2.
Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the effective date of this ordinance, or amendment thereto, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
4.5.3.
If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of structure, or structure and premises, may as a special, exception be changed to another nonconforming use, provided that the board, either by general rule or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use.
In permitting such change, the board may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
4.5.4.
Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for this ordinance, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
4.5.5.
When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year period (except when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used, except in conformity with this ordinance.
4.5.6.
Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land.
Destruction for the purpose of this subsection is defined as damage to an extent of more than 50 percent of the replacement cost at the time of destruction.
Sec.
4.6.
- Nonconforming improvements.
When there exist nonconforming improvements on a developed site, such as driveway access points, landscaping, buffers, screening, or off-street parking or loading facilities, such improvements shall be made to conform to the applicable provisions of this ordinance in the following circumstances:   1.
When the premises remains vacant for a period of two or more years;   2.
When the use of the premises is expanded or changes to a more intensive use.
Sec.
4.7.
- Repairs and maintenance of nonconforming structures.
On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding ten percent of the replacement cost of the nonconforming portion of the structure as the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
4.7.1.
If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to the lack of repairs and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized officials to be unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not therefore be restored, repaired or rebuilt, except in conformity with this ordinance.
4.7.2.
Nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official.
Sec.
4.8.
- Uses under special, exception provisions are not nonconforming.
Any use, which has been approved by the board as a special, exception, other than a change through board action from nonconforming use to another use not generally permitted in the district, shall not be considered a nonconforming use.
ARTICLE 5.
- SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS   Sec.
5.1.
- Uses.
5.1.1.
Permitted, special exception and conditional uses.
In each district no other uses other than the types specified as uses permitted-by-right or by approval of a special, exception (see § 13.6) or conditional use (see § 12.11) shall be allowed.
Uses permitted-by-right are permitted upon application to the zoning official.
Permits shall only be issued for special, exception or conditional uses upon approval by the board or the commission, respectively.
5.1.2.
Interpretation of uses.
The use tables in this ordinance (i.e., table 6-1 and table 7-1) are not intended to be all-inclusive.
Therefore, the zoning official may make interpretations so as to classify any questioned use within a listed use of most similar impact and characteristics.
5.1.3.
Unclassified uses.
In the event the zoning official finds a new or unusual use that cannot appropriately fit a listed use in any district, the following procedures shall be followed:   1.
If compatible with the existing zoning district intent, the unclassified use shall be permitted by special, exception upon approval and subject to the conditions set by the board.
2.
If the unclassified use would not be compatible with the intent of the existing zoning district, the applicant may request rezoning to another district in which the zoning official determines the unclassified use is best suited.
If rezoning is sought, the unclassified use may only be permitted by special, exception in the requested district.
Following final action on the unclassified use, the commission may initiate an amendment to this ordinance to list the use in the most appropriate district(s).
Sec.
5.2.
- Area and dimensional regulations.
The regulations set by this ordinance shall be the minimum regulations and shall apply to each class or kind of structure or land, and particularly, except as hereinafter, provided:   5.2.1.
No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered, except in conformity with this ordinance.
5.2.2.
No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:   1.
To exceed the height or bulk;   2.
To accommodate or house a greater number of families;   3.
To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;   4.
To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces than herein required or in any manner contrary to the provisions of this ordinance.
5.2.3.
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed by any structure or part thereof, and unoccupied for storage, servicing or similar uses, except as otherwise specified in this ordinance.
5.2.4.
No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this ordinance shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building, unless specifically, provided for otherwise in this ordinance.
5.2.5.
No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards or lots created after the effective date of this ordinance shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this ordinance.
5.2.6.
All territory, which may hereafter be annexed to the city, shall be considered to be in the low density residential district, unless otherwise classified.
However, if an annexation petitioner desires to have property classified within any zone other than R-1, following annexation, the petitioner must obtain the approval from the commission prior to the submission of the formal annexation request to the council, and the council must approve such zoning classification.
5.2.7.
Each structure hereafter erected or altered shall comply with the area and dimensional regulations applied by this ordinance.
Exceptions to these requirements are as follows:   1.
Where the owner of a lot of official record at the time of adoption of this ordinance does not own sufficient adjacent land to enable such owner to conform to area and dimensional requirements, one building and its accessory structures may be built, provided the setbacks and other requirements conform as closely as possible, in the opinion of the board, to the requirements of the applicable district; and further, provided that neither side yard shall be reduced to less than five ft. in width, except where a lesser or no side yard setback is required.
2.
No building shall be required to be set back more than the average of the setbacks of the existing principal buildings within 100 ft. each side thereof.
Sec.
5.3.
- Height.
Height limitations shall not apply to church steeples, barns, silos, farm structures, chimneys, flag poles, public utility poles, cooling towers, water tanks, and industrial structures, when required by manufacturing process and, provided the structure does not exceed 25 percent of the lot area, except in those districts where height restrictions are for the protection of aircraft.
Sec.
5.4.
- Structures.
It is the intent of this ordinance that there shall be but one principal structure plus any permitted accessory structures on any lot used for single-family or duplex dwellings; however, any and all accessory structures shall not be used as living quarters, unless specifically permitted by this ordinance.
This shall not apply to single-family and duplex dwelling developments under condominium ownership that otherwise meet the area and dimensional requirements of this ordinance.
Protective shelters classified as accessory structures may provide temporary living quarters in times of danger or emergency.
Sec.
5.5.
- Future street lines.
On any lot which, as of the effective date of this ordinance or amendment thereto, may be reduced in area by widening a public street to the right-of-way width indicated on any duly adopted federal, state, regional county (sic) or municipal plan, or as same may be hereafter amended, the minimum required yards, lot area, lot width, and lot coverage area shall be measured by considering such future street lines as the lot line of the concerned lot.
However, upon a recommendation by the City Planner, the commission may modify this requirement as it applies to streets under the city's jurisdiction.
Sec.
5.6.
- Rear yard abuts a public street.
When the rear yard of a lot abuts a public street, all buildings or structures on that rear yard shall observe the same setback from the street line or property line as required for adjacent properties which front on that street.
In addition, any structure located within 25 ft. of that setback line shall observe the side yard requirements of the adjoining properties fronting on that street.
Sec.
5.7.
- Intersection visibility.
To provide a clear view at intersections, there shall be an unobstructed triangular area at the intersection of any two streets or a street with a driveway, alley or railroad.
The size of this triangular area shall be determined in accordance with table 5-1.
Such distance shall be measured from the position of a car stopped at the intersection to the centerline of the intersecting street, as shown in Figure 5.7.
Within this triangular area, no structure, sign or planting shall be permitted which obstructs motorist's view between a height of 2.5 ft. and eight ft. above grade level at the intersection.
Table 5-1 Sight Distance Requirements   	Design Speed of Intersecting Street (mph)  	Intersection Sight Distance (ft.) 1   	15  	170   	20  	225   	25  	280   	30  	335   	35  	390   	40  	445       1 Distances are intended as a minimum guideline.
Site conditions such as grades, traffic volumes, signalization types, etc.
may warrant increases in desired sight distances.
Sec.
5.8.
- Rear dwelling prohibited.
No accessory structure or building on the lot of a single-family or duplex dwelling, other than the principal building used for such single-family or duplex dwelling, may be used for residential purposes, unless specifically approved as part of a planned development.
Sec.
5.9.
- Location of accessory buildings.
Accessory buildings may be erected on any lot; however, such buildings shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements:   5.9.1.
No accessory building shall be erected in any required front or side yard and shall not occupy more than 30 percent of any required rear yard.
Accessory buildings shall be at least five ft. from all lot lines and from any building on the same lot.
5.9.2.
No accessory building not an integral part of the principal building shall be located within 60 ft. from the front lot line.
5.9.3.
In the case of a corner lot adjoined in the rear by a lot facing the side street, the accessory structure shall be located in such a manner as to conform with the front and side yard requirements of the adjoining lots.
Sec.
5.10.
- Access to public streets.
Every use, building or structure established after the effective date of this ordinance shall be on a lot or parcel with street frontage.
All structures shall be so located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for servicing, fire protection and required off-street parking.
Sec.
5.11.
- Fences, walls, hedges.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this ordinance, fences, wall and hedges may be permitted in any required yard, or along the edge of any yard, provided no fence, wall, or hedge shall exceed 2.5 ft. in height within the clear sight triangle required by § 5.7.
Sec.
5.12.
- Essential community facilities.
Nothing in this ordinance shall prohibit the provision of essential services, provided the installation of such facility or service does not violate any other applicable provision of this ordinance.
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to permit the erection, construction or enlargement of any building, tower, or maintenance depot for provision of an essential community facility or service, except as otherwise permitted in this ordinance.
Sec.
5.13.
- Access streets.
The following regulations shall apply to all commercial and industrial developments located on major arterials:   5.13.1.
There shall be provisions made by the developer whereby adequate land shall be set aside to provide an access street parallel to the major arterial.
5.13.2.
The developer shall provide a paved access street for the length of the lot frontage and that meets city specifications.
5.13.3.
Ingress and egress points to the access road from private property shall be coordinated by the developer with the City Planner.
5.13.4.
The commission may waive any parts of this provision governing access streets if it is determined by the City Planner that direct access will not adversely affect traffic safety and movement on the major arterial and any adjoining streets.
Sec.
5.14.
- Parking and storage of certain vehicles.
Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license plates, or which are inoperable or otherwise disabled for a period of seven consecutive days, shall not be stored or parked on any residentially zoned property, whether occupied as a residence or not, or on property used for residential purposes in a nonresidential district other than in a completely enclosed building.
For the purposes of this section, a vehicle shall be deemed inoperable or otherwise disabled if it is unable to operate on the streets and roadways of the State of Alabama in full compliance with the various provisions of the Code of Alabama, 1975, as amended.
Campers, travel trailers, or recreational vehicles may be stored in any district, provided that they are parked in either the side or rear yards, or in a garage or accessory structure conforming to the requirements of this ordinance.
No such vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot or in any location not approved for such use.
Sec.
5.15.
- Manufactured homes and portable buildings.
5.15.1.
Manufactured homes not in use may be stored only in conforming manufactured home sales lots, within the confines of a building, or in individual lots in conforming manufactured home parks with only one manufactured home permitted per manufactured home space.
5.15.2.
Portable buildings meeting the definitions of Class A or B manufactured homes may be used as bona fide construction offices on any premises for which a building permit has been issued and remains valid.
5.15.3.
Portable buildings meeting the definitions of Class A or B manufactured homes may be used as accessory structures on lots in nonresidential districts that are already developed with a permanent structure that houses the principal use.
In such cases, the portable building may only house a use that is customarily incidental to the principal use, including a caretaker dwelling, but shall only be placed behind the front building line.
Where such placement is insufficient to obscure public views of the portable building, screening may be required by the zoning official, consistent with the standards in § 11.3, screening.
5.15.4.
In accordance with § 12.3, building permit required, the placement of any manufactured home on property, whether temporarily or permanently, shall require a building permit.
This shall not apply to the placement of a manufactured home on a previously approved manufactured home park space nor the placement of a manufactured home for sale on an approved manufactured home sales lot.
5.15.5  Manufactured homes are only allowed in a designated Manufactured Home Park or District (T-1).
Sec.
5.16.
- Swimming pool.
5.16.1.
Swimming pools shall not be located closer to any lot line than ten ft., and non-commercial pools shall be enclosed by a fence or wall not less than five ft. to prevent uncontrolled access.
5.16.2.
Private swimming pools may be established in residential districts for the exclusive use of the occupants of the subject property and their guests and, provided that no part of the swimming pool extends into any required front or side yard.
Sec.
5.17.
- Additional regulations for areas of special flood hazard.
All properties within areas of special flood hazard, as defined in Ordinance 439 Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, City of Opp, shall also be subject to the applicable regulations of said ordinance in addition to the requirements of this ordinance.
Wherever there is a conflict between the provisions of this ordinance and those of Ordinance 439, the more restrictive shall apply.
Sec.
5.18.
- Ownership and maintenance of common open spaces and facilities.
For all proposals involving the creation of open spaces or facilities (including stormwater detention ponds and similar facilities) to be owned and maintained by a developer or a homeowner, property owner, or condominium association, including where such open spaces are required by this ordinance, the following shall apply:   5.18.1.
Owner's association.
In the case of an owner's association, such association shall own the common open space or facility in perpetuity.
Membership in the association shall be mandatory and automatic for all owners of the subdivision or condominium and their successors.
The association shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members.
The responsibility for maintaining the common open space and/or facilities located thereon shall be borne by the association.
5.18.2.
Management plan, submittal.
The applicant shall submit, along with a proposed preliminary plat or site plan, as applicable, a plan for the management of open space and/or common facilities that:   1.
Allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the common open space/facilities including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital improvements;   2.
Estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the common open space/facilities and outlines the means by which such funding will be obtained or, provided;   3.
Provides that any changes to the plan be approved by the commission; and   4.
Provides for enforcement of the plan.
In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the common open space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the city may enter the premises and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance.
The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the association, or to the individual owners that make up the association, and may include administrative costs and penalties.
Such costs shall become a lien on all involved properties.
Sec.
5.19.
- Noise standards.
In addition to the separation and landscaping requirements of § 11-1, buffers, no use shall produce continuous, recurring, scheduled or intermittent noise beyond its property and that exceeds the levels indicated in table 5-2.
5.19.1.
Any use which may produce noise levels in excess of those permitted at the property line as indicated in table 5-2 shall be required to incorporate noise baffles or other noise suppression techniques in order to comply with these requirements.
Table 5-2.
Noise Standards   	Use or Zoning of  Abutting Property  	Daytime  7:00 a.m.—9:00 p.m.
Nighttime  9:00 p.m.—7:00 a.m.
Residential  	75 dB  	70 dB   	Commercial or Institutional  	80 dB  	75 dB   	Industrial  	85 dB  	80 dB       5.19.2.
Exemptions.
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from this § 5.19:   1.
Noise from safety signals, warning devices, and emergency pressure relief valves.
2.
Noise from any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
3.
Noise from aircraft or railways.
4.
Noise from utility stations, utility substations or utility plants.
5.
Noise from construction activities occurring between 7:00 a.m. and sundown or from temporary operation of maintenance equipment or activities in residential and commercial areas between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.   5.19.3.
Where a change in zoning or use occurs on abutting property, the noise from a pre-existing industrial or commercial use shall be subject to the pre-existing restrictions, as if the zoning or use of the abutting property had not changed.
Sec.
5.20.
- Lighting standards.
The intent of these standards is to reduce the impacts of glare, light trespass and light pollution while promoting safety and energy conservation.
For all nonresidential and multifamily developments, the following shall apply:   5.20.1.
Definitions.
For this § 5.20, the following terms shall have the meanings, provided herein:   1.
Floodlighting: Artificial lighting so directed or diffused as to provide comparatively uniform illumination over a large area.
2.
Full cut-off light fixture: A light fixture that, by design of the housing, does not allow any light dispersion or direct glare to shine above [a] 90-degree horizontal plane from the base of the fixture.
3.
Glare: The sensation produced by a bright light source that is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted, which causes annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance.
4.
Glare, direct: Glare resulting from direct line-of-sight eye contact with a direct light source.
5.
Light trespass: Light from an artificial source that is intruding into an area where it is not wanted or does not belong.
6.
Light fixture shield: A non-reflective covering, canopy or other such device fitted over a light source preventing light from illuminating an area not intended to be illuminated.
7.
Uplighting: Any light source that distributes illumination above a horizontal plane.
5.20.2.
Standards.
1.
All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be designed, shielded, aimed, located and maintained to prevent light trespass and glare onto adjacent properties or roadways.
2.
The intensity, location, and design of lighting shall be such that not more than one foot candle of light is cast upon adjacent residential property.
3.
Light fixtures shall be full cut-off fixtures, with the following, exceptions:   a.
Holiday lighting from November 15 to March 1.   b.  Sensor activated lights, provided that:   1)  It is located in such a manner as to prevent glare and lighting onto properties of others or into the public right-of-way;   2)  The light is set to illuminate only when activated and to extinguish within five minutes after activation has ceased; and   3)  The light must not be triggered by activity that occurs off of the subject property.
c.  All temporary emergency lighting needed by fire and police departments or other emergency agencies.
d.  Floodlights with external shielding if the luminaire does not cause glare or light to shine on adjacent property or public rights-of-way.
e.  Up lighting for flags, address markers, and architectural features and low-voltage landscape lighting, provided that direct illumination is focused exclusively on the object and away from adjoining properties and public streets and sidewalks.
In all cases, up lighting must not cause glare or light trespass.
f.  Light fixtures that have a maximum output of 1,000 lumens per fixture (equal to a single 60-watt incandescent light), regardless of the number of lamps, provided:   1)  The bulb of the fixture is not visible;   2)  The fixture uses frosted, opalescent, clear or iridescent glass;   3)  The fixture has an opaque top or is under an opaque portion of the building;   4)  If the fixture utilizes clear glass, the output of the fixture must be shielded by the architecture of the structure; and   5)  All fixtures must not cause glare or light trespass beyond the property.
g.  Floodlighting used for outdoor recreational facilities, provided:   1)  To the extent practicable, all light fixtures/light poles used to illuminate playing fields, courts and other outdoor recreational facilities shall be set back a minimum of one foot for every foot in height from any residential property line or right-of-way.
2)  In any case, floodlighting shall be turned off no later than one hour after an event is concluded.
The fixtures must be aimed so that their beams are directed and fall within the primary playing or performance area.
All sports and event lighting must be equipped with a glare-control package (louvers, shields or similar devices), and the fixtures must be aimed so that beams are directed and fall within the primary playing area and light trespass is minimized.
4.
In parking lots, light fixture poles shall not be more than 30 feet in height.
5.
Light fixtures under any canopy shall be recessed into the canopy ceiling with a flat lens to prevent glare.
The bottom of the fixtures may protrude a no more than two inches from the ceiling.
No other portions of the canopy not included in the sign area shall be illuminated.
5.20.3.
Lighting plan required.
For all nonresidential and multifamily developments involving off-street parking areas in excess of 20 spaces, a lighting plan shall be submitted as part of the required site plan.
The lighting plan shall be prepared by a registered engineer, design or lighting professional and shall include the information listed in appendix 5.
ARTICLE 6.
- RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS   The following sections present the specific regulations which govern development within each of the city's residential zoning districts.
Sec.
6.1.
- Residential district regulations, generally.
6.1.1.
Uses permitted.
Uses shall be permitted in each residential district as indicated in table 6-1.
Any use not specified in table 6-1 as permitted is prohibited (except as, provided in § 5.1, uses).
Any additional uses shall be allowed only through amendment of this ordinance.
Refer to the specific district regulations for any limitations that may apply to certain uses.
6.1.2.
General development criteria.
All developments shall comply with the area and dimensional requirements in table 6-2, the provisions specified in the regulations of the applicable district and the provisions referenced following, where applicable:   1.
See article 5, supplementary regulations.
2.
See article 9, supplementary use regulations.
3.
See article 10, parking and loading requirements.
4.
See article 11, landscaping, screening and buffers.
a.  Buffers shall be, provided, pursuant to § 11.1, when a new use of higher intensity is developed abutting an existing use of lesser intensity.
b.  Landscaping shall be, provided around and within vehicular areas pursuant to § 11.2.   c.  Screening shall be, provided for outdoor storage areas, dumpsters, and similar site elements pursuant to § 11.3.
Sec.
6.2.
- Low Density (R-1) Residential District.
6.2.1.
Intent.
The R-1 district is designed to facilitate the development of single-family, low-density residential areas, with additional facilities limited to those which enhance and preserve the residential neighborhood environment.
6.2.2.
No new R-1 district may be established which contains less than five acres.
Sec.
6.3.
- Medium Density (R-2) Residential District.
6.3.1.
The R-2 district is designed to facilitate the development of single-family, medium-density residential areas, with additional facilities limited to those which enhance and preserve the residential neighborhood environment.
6.3.2.
No new R-2 district may be established which contains less than five acres.
Sec.
6.4.
- Single- and Two-Family (R-3) Residential District.
6.4.1.
Intent.
The R-3 district is designed to facilitate the development of single-family and low-density multifamily dwelling units, not to exceed two dwelling units per structure, and additional uses which enhance the residential environment of the district.
6.4.2.
No new R-3 district may be established which contains less than five acres.
6.4.3.
Development criteria.
1.
More than one two-family unit structure may be erected on the same lot, provided there shall be a minimum distance of 20 ft. between structures, and, provided all other area and dimensional requirements are satisfied.
Table 6-1.
Uses Permitted in Residential Districts   	Districts  	R-1  	R-2  	R-3  	R-4  	R-5  	T-1   	Residential Uses   	Boarding House  	 	 	SE  	SE  	 	  	Duplex  	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	  	Conservation Subdivision, § 9.7  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Family Day Care Home, § 9.12  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Home Occupation, § 9.3  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	  	Independent Living Facility  	 	 	 	SE  	 	  	Manufactured Home Park  	 	 	 	 	 	C   	Manufactured Home Subdivision  	 	 	 	 	 	C   	Multifamily Dwelling  	 	 	 	Y  	 	  	Residential Accessory Structure  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y   	Single-family Detached Dwelling  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y   	Townhouse  	 	 	 	 	Y  	  	Nonresidential Uses  	 	 	 	 	 	  	Assisted Living Facility, Nursing Care Facility  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C   	Bed and Breakfast, § 9.8  	 	SE  	SE  	SE  	 	  	Cemetery, § 9.2  	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE  	  	Communications Tower, § 9.9  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C   	Country Club  	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE  	  	Day Care Center, § 9.12  	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE  	  	Group Care Home, § 9.12  	 	 	 	R  	 	  	Place of Assembly, Public or Semi-Public  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C   	Public Buildings (fire stations, libraries, etc.)
C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C   	Public Recreational Facility (parks, playgrounds, stadiums)  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C   	Public Utility Facility, § 9.6  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C   	Public Utility Service  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y   	School, Public or Private  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C       Y - The use is permitted by right, subject to any limitations of the applicable district.
Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted subject to § 5.1.2 and § 5.1.3.
SE - Special, exception use, requires approval by the board of zoning adjustment (see § 13.6).
May also be subject to district limitations.
C - Conditional use, required approval by the commission (see § 12.11).
May also be subject to district limitations.
A use followed by a numeric cross-reference is also subject to the supplementary use regulations referenced.
A blank cell indicates that the use is prohibited.
Table 6-2.
Area and Dimensional Requirements for Residential Districts   	Refer also to the applicable district regulations for any development criteria that may modify or supplement the requirements shown herein.
District  	R-1  	R-2  	R-3  	R-4 1  	R-5  	T-1 2   	 	 	 	 	 	townhouse  	patio home  	  	Min.
Lot Size  	15,000 sf.
10,500 sf.
7,000 sf.
10,000 sf.
plus 1,600 sf.
per unit for over 4 units  	1,500 sf.
6,000 sf.
8,000 sf.
Min.
Lot Width (at Building Line)  	100 ft.  	70 ft.  	60 ft.  	100 ft.  	20 ft.  	60 ft. 3  	60 ft.   	Min.
Lot Frontage  	50 ft.  	50 ft.  	35 ft.  	35 ft.  	18 ft.  	35 ft.  	na   	Min.
Front Yard Setback  	40 ft.  	35 ft.  	25 ft.  	25 ft.  	10-15 ft. 4  	20 ft.  	25 ft.   	Min.
Rear Yard Setback  	45 ft.  	40 ft.  	25 ft.  	25 ft.  	25 ft.  	25 ft.  	25 ft.Min.
Side Yard Setback   	One-story  	15 ft.  	ten ft.  	ten ft.  	ten ft.  	0 ft.; 12 ft. at end of group  	10 ft. one side; 0 ft. other side  	10 ft.   	Multi-story  	18 ft.  	12 ft.  	12 ft.  	12 ft.  	 	 	  	Min.
Street Side Yard Setback  	30 ft.  	25 ft.  	20 ft.  	na  	na  	na  	na   	Max.
Lot Coverage  	25%  	25%  	30%  	35%  	55%  	40%  	naMax.
Building Height   	Principal Buildings  	2½ stories or 35 ft.  	2½ stories or 35 ft.  	2½ stories or 35 ft.  	3 stories or 45 ft.  	3 stories or 45 ft.  	1 story or 20 ft.   	Accessory Structures  	20 ft.  	20 ft.  	20 ft.  	20 ft.
Supplemental Requirements for Nonresidential Uses   	Min.
Lot Size  	30,000 sf.
30,000 sf.
30,000 sf.
30,000 sf.
30,000 sf.
na  	  	Min.
Yard Setbacks  	40 ft.  	40 ft.  	30 ft.  	30 ft.  	30 ft.  	na  	  	Min.
Lot Width (at Building Line)  	na  	na  	na  	na  	100 ft.  	na  	      1.
Minimum lot size, minimum lot width (at building line), and minimum street side yard for single-family dwellings shall be as, provided for the R-3 district.
2.
Requirements are for manufactured home subdivisions lots.
For manufactured home parks, refer to § 6.7.
3.
Minimum lot width at building line may be reduced to 50 ft. if lots are rear-accessed.
4.
See § 6.6.5.4a for specific requirement.
Sec.
6.5.
- Multifamily (R-4) Residential District.
6.5.1.
Intent.
The R-4 district is designed to facilitate the development of multifamily dwellings, and additional uses which enhance the residential environment of the district.
6.5.2.
No new R-4 district may be established which contains less than ten acres.
6.5.3.
Development criteria.
1.
More than one multifamily dwelling may be erected on the same lot, provided there shall be a minimum distance of 20 ft. between structures, and, provided all other area and dimensional requirements are satisfied.
2.
Multifamily dwellings shall be buffered from any single-family and duplex dwellings as required in § 11.1.
Sec.
6.6.
- Group Housing (R-5) Residential District.
6.6.1.
The R-5 district is designed to facilitate the development of garden/patio homes and townhouses, and additional uses which enhance the residential environment of the district.
6.6.2.
No new R-5 district may be established which contains less than five acres.
6.6.3.
Patio home developments and townhouse developments shall not share the same block frontage with detached single-family dwellings or duplexes unless separated by an alley, watercourse or buffer.
Patio home developments and townhouse developments shall be similarly separated.
6.6.4.
All lots shall be served by water and sewer.
All utilities shall be placed underground or in an alley for rear-accessed lots.
6.6.5.
Development criteria for townhouses.
1.
All lots shall front on a street; and each townhouse shall have a front entrance facing a street and be accessible from the rear.
2.
No less than three nor more than eight townhouses shall be located within a continuous building group.
3.
Each townhouse shall be located on a separate platted lot, except where developed under condominium ownership.
4.
Except as, provided herein, minimum dimensional requirements shall be as shown in table 6-2.   a.
Front yard: Townhouses shall be set back no less than ten ft. from the nearest edge of a required sidewalk.
Where the front yard is less than 15 ft., the ground floor of the unit shall be no less than two ft. above grade level at the sidewalk.
b.  Rear yard: Where an alley is present at the rear of the lot, the minimum rear yard setback for accessory buildings shall be 12 ft. from the alley centerline.
c.  A side yard shall only be required at the end of a row of townhouses, in which case the minimum width shall be 12 ft.
However, when the end unit abuts a street, the minimum front yard setback shall apply.
d.  Each townhouse shall have its own yard containing not less than 400 sf., exclusive of paved parking space, reasonably secluded from view from streets and from neighboring property.
5.
Off-street facilities shall be, provided on and to the rear of the individual townhouse lots, or grouped in bays in the interior of blocks.
6.
Common open spaces and facilities shall comply with § 5.18.
6.6.6.
Development criteria for patio homes.
1.
No patio home shall be located less than 25 ft. from any boundary of the development that abuts an R-1, R-2 or R-3 district.
2.
Though a zero lot line is permitted on one side, there shall be a minimum spacing of ten ft. between the sides of all patio homes.
Sec.
6.7.
- Manufactured Home (T-1) District.
6.7.1.
Intent.
The T-1 district is designed to provide locations within the city for the development of planned manufactured home parks.
The areas are developed and located to provide safe and sanitary living conditions for occupants and are conveniently located near shopping centers, schools and other community facilities.
6.7.2.
No new T-1 district may be established which contains less than five acres.
A site plan shall be submitted with all requests for establishment of a manufactured home district including those materials listed in appendix 1.
6.7.3.
Manufactured home classifications.
Only Class A manufactured homes and site-built homes shall be permitted in manufactured home subdivisions.
Only Class A and Class B manufactured homes shall be permitted in manufactured home parks.
Class C manufactured homes and non-manufactured homes are prohibited in manufactured home parks.
6.7.4.
Development criteria for manufactured home subdivisions.
1.
Area and dimensional requirements shall be as shown in table 6-2.
2.
Only site-built single-family detached dwellings and Class A manufactured homes shall be permitted.
Class A manufactured homes shall comply with the following:   a.
The manufactured home shall have a minimum of 960 sf.
of enclosed and heated living area.
b.
The roof shall have a minimum vertical rise of three ft. for each 12 ft. of horizontal run and shall be finished with a type of shingle commonly used in standard residential construction.
c.  All roof structures shall have an eave projection of no less than six inches, which may include a gutter.
d.  The exterior siding shall consist predominantly of vinyl or aluminum horizontal siding, wood, or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction   e.  All manufactured homes shall be blocked and tied down in conformance with the standards set forth in section 11-49-219, Code of Alabama, 1975, as amended [Code of Ala. 1975, § 24-5-30 et seq.
], and shall have skirting installed between the base of the structure and the ground.
This skirting shall be made of concrete block, wood, vinyl, or other approved materials.
f.  The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights shall be removed prior to occupancy.
6.7.5.
Development criteria for manufactured home parks.
1.
Only Class A and Class B manufactured homes shall be permitted.
2.
The main service roadway for the manufactured home park shall have access to a public street.
All streets and rights-of-way within manufactured home parks shall comply with the city subdivision regulations and all other applicable street construction standards of the city.
3.
All off-street parking shall have access to an interior roadway within the park.
No direct access shall be allowed between manufactured home spaces and any exterior street.
4.
Requirements for manufactured home spaces:   a.  Min.
area: 2,800 sf.
b.  Min.
width: 32 ft.   c.  Min.
front and rear yards: 25 ft.   d.  Min.
side yard: ten ft.   5.
No more than ten manufactured home spaces may be developed per gross acre of land area.
6.
Accessory uses may not constitute more than ten percent of the total site.
7.
No manufactured home shall be less than 25 ft. from the property lines of the park where it adjoins a residential district.
8.
All manufactured homes shall be blocked and tied down in conformance with the standards set forth in section 11-49-219, Code of Alabama, 1975, as amended [Code of Ala. 1975, § 24-5-30 et seq.
], and shall have skirting installed between the base of the structure and the ground.
This skirting shall be made of concrete block, wood, vinyl, or other approved materials.
9.
Signage shall be identified on the site plan and allowable as approved through the review process.
10.
No permanent addition of any kind shall be built onto or become a part of any manufactured home, unless wheels and axles of the manufactured home are removed and the manufactured home is mounted on a permanent foundation.
All construction shall comply with the requirements of the city building code.
11.
Utilities.
a.
A sanitary sewer collection system shall be extended to every manufactured home space.
b.
Every home space shall be, provided with an individual branch water line in accordance with all applicable standards of the city and service provider.
Each lot shall have a water meter.
c.  Every home space shall be, provided with individual electrical service in accordance with all applicable standards of the city and service provider.
A primary service line shall not be located across the top of any manufactured home.
12.
Density incentive for storm shelters.
The commission may increase the maximum allowed density (§ 6.7.5.5) to 12 manufactured home spaces per gross acre when the developer and/or park operator installs and maintains storm shelters in accordance with the following:   a.
Storm shelters:   1)  Have a minimum floor area of seven sf.
for each manufactured home space and be located no farther than 1,320 linear ft. from the furthest home space in the manufactured home park.
2)  Be designed for compliance with all applicable city building, mechanical, plumbing and electrical codes by a licensed structural engineer or architect and built in accordance with plans as approved by the building inspector.
3)  Be designed and constructed to meet all FEMA requirements and guidelines if located in a floodplain.
4)  Be designed and constructed to meet all applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
b.
The park operator shall be responsible for making the storm shelter accessible and usable in times of need.
It is unlawful for any required storm shelter to be used for storage purposes if such storage reduces the minimum floor area available for shelter of persons below the requirements of this subsection.
13.
Future additions.
Additions of ten or more manufactured home spaces to the park shall comply with either the normally allowed maximum density in § 6.7.5.5 or the increased density allowed pursuant to § 6.7.5.12.
If the addition will include storm shelter provisions as specified in § 6.7.5.12, the density calculation shall be based on the gross park acreage including the proposed new spaces.
Otherwise, the density calculation shall be based only on the acreage of the area containing the spaces proposed to be added.
ARTICLE 7.
- NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS   The following sections present the specific regulations that govern development within the city's nonresidential zoning districts.
Sec.
7.1.
- Nonresidential district regulations, generally.
7.1.1.
Uses permitted.
Uses shall be permitted in each residential district as indicated in table 7-1.
Any use not specified in table 7-1 as permitted is prohibited (except as, provided in § 5.1, uses).
Any additional uses shall be allowed only through amendment of this ordinance.
Refer to the specific district regulations for any limitations that may apply to certain uses.
7.1.2.
General development criteria.
All developments shall comply with the area and dimensional requirements in table 7-2, the provisions specified in the regulations of the applicable district and the provisions referenced herein, where applicable:   1.
See article 5, supplementary regulations.
2.
See article 9, supplementary use regulations.
3.
See article 10, parking and loading requirements.
4.
See article 11, landscaping, screening and buffers.
a.  Buffers shall be, provided, pursuant to § 11.1, when a new use of higher intensity is developed abutting an existing use of lesser intensity.
b.  Landscaping shall be, provided around and within vehicular areas pursuant to § 11.2.   c.  Screening shall be, provided for outdoor storage areas, dumpsters, and similar site elements pursuant to § 11.3.
5.
Lot frontage.
It is intended that each nonresidential development front on and be visible from a public street and that accesses to abutting developments are either shared or adequately separated for safety and legibility.
Therefore, while the lot frontage requirements in table 7-2 allow flexibility in the design and arrangement of nonresidential developments, no lot or site plan shall be approved when the narrowness of a lot frontage, from which access is to be taken, conflicts with these intents and the requirements of § 10.4, driveway spacing.
6.
Portable buildings may be permitted for temporary construction offices and as accessory structures in nonresidential districts pursuant to § 5.15.
Sec.
7.2.
- Agricultural (AR) District.
7.2.1.
Intent.
The AR district is designed to facilitate the continued use of property for an encourage the new development of agricultural and recreational related uses.
7.2.2.
No new AR district may be established which contains less than five acres.
7.2.3.
Any structure used for the housing of livestock or poultry of any kind, including any facilities for watering, feeding and animal waste/manure storage and disposal shall not be located closer than 100 ft. to any property line.
Sec.
7.3.
- Central Business (C-1) District.
7.3.1.
Intent.
The C-1 district is designed to facilitate and preserve a central area of intensive commercial, financial, professional, governmental and cultural activities scaled to pedestrian needs.
7.3.2.
No new C-1 district may be established which contains less than four acres.
7.3.3.
Development criteria.
1.
Rear yard requirement shall be waived if the lot abuts a public alley and if loading and unloading facilities are, provided.
2.
Requirements for upper-story dwellings.
a.
Minimum size of 800 sf.
of living space per dwelling unit.
b.
Maximum of one resident per 300 sf.
of living space; maximum of two unrelated individuals per dwelling unit.
c.  Developers shall furnish the building inspector with architectural or engineered building plans complying with all adopted editions of the building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, fire and life safety codes.
d.  The removal of solid waste, size and location of cans must be approved by the Opp Sanitation Superintendent.
Sec.
7.4.
- Neighborhood Commercial (C-2) District.
7.4.1.
Intent.
The C-2 district is designed to facilitate the unified grouping of retail and personal service facilities that provide for the daily needs of residential neighborhoods.
The facilities are intended to blend with residential uses.
7.4.2.
No new C-2 district may be established which contains less than three acres.
7.4.3.
Development criteria.
Single-family detached dwellings, existing prior to the effective date of this ordinance, shall be subject to article 4, Nonconformities, except as follows: If damaged by fire or natural disaster, such dwellings may be renovated, repaired or replaced, on the existing foundation only, regardless of the amount of damage.
Sec.
7.5.
- General Commercial (C-3) District.
7.5.1.
Intent.
The C-3 district is designed to facilitate the development of general and personal business activity, with an orientation toward vehicular accessibility.
7.5.2.
No new C-3 district may be established which contains less than five acres.
7.5.3.
Development criteria.
1.
Rear yard requirements shall be waived if a lot abuts an alley and if loading and unloading facilities are, provided.
2.
The minimum front yard setback shall be 100 ft. along U.S. Highway 331 and 84.
60 ft. along all other arterials.
Sec.
7.6.
- Regional Commercial (C-4) District.
7.6.1.
Intent.
The C-4 district is designed to facilitate the development of commercial establishments which cater specifically to motor vehicle use.
7.6.2.
No new C-4 district may be established which contains less than 15 acres.
7.6.3.
Development criteria.
The minimum front yard setback shall be 100 ft. along U.S. Highway 331 and 84.
60 ft. along all other arterials.
Sec.
7.7.
- Institutional (INST) District.
7.7.1.
Intent.
The INST district is designed to facilitate the development of community and regional-scale institutional uses.
Sec.
7.8.
- Light manufacturing (M-1) District.
7.8.1.
Intent.
The M-1 district is designed to facilitate the development of light industrial uses, including light manufacturing and assembly plants.
7.8.2.
No new M-1 district may be established which contains less than ten acres.
Sec.
7.9.
- Heavy manufacturing (M-2) District.
7.9.1.
Intent.
The M-2 district is designed to facilitate the development of industrial uses, including heavy industrial and manufacturing uses, which are more acceptably operated in a defined area due to their community impact.
7.9.2.
No new M-2 district may be established which contains less than ten acres.
Table 7-1.
Uses Permitted in Nonresidential Districts   	Districts  	AR  	C-1  	C-2  	C-3  	C-4  	INST  	M-1  	M-2   	Agricultural Uses   	Dairy Farm with on-site retail sales  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Farm  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Farm Support Business  	SE  	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Fruit and Produce, Wholesale  	SE  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Grain and Feed Manufacturing  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Hatchery, Aquaculture  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Kennel  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Livestock Sales  	SE  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Residential Uses   	Caretaker Dwelling, as an accessory use  	 	 	 	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE   	Home Occupation, § 9.3  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Independent Living Facility  	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	 	  	Upper-Story Dwelling, § 9.10  	 	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	  	Residential Accessory Structure  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Single-Family Detached Dwelling  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Institutional Uses and Utilities   	Animal Shelter  	 	 	 	 	 	SE  	Y  	Y   	Assisted Living Facility, Nursing Care Facility  	 	C  	C  	C  	C  	Y  	 	  	Bus Station  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Cemetery, § 9.2  	SE  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y   	Club, Private  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y   	Communications Tower, § 9.9  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C   	Country Club  	SE  	 	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	  	Day Care Center, § 9.12  	 	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y   	Hospital  	 	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	 	  	Military Installation  	 	 	 	 	 	C  	Y  	Y   	Penal Institution  	 	 	 	 	 	C  	Y  	Y   	Place of Assembly, Public or Semi-Public  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	Y  	C  	  	Public Recreational Facility (parks, playgrounds, stadiums)  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	Y  	C  	  	Public Utility Facility, § 9.6  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C   	Public Utility Service  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y   	School, Public or Private  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	Y  	C  	  	Commercial and Industrial Uses   	Airport  	C  	 	 	 	 	 	C  	C   	Ambulance, Security Service  	 	SE  	SE  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Amusement, Indoor or Outdoor  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Automotive Parts Sales  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Automotive Repair, Major  	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Automotive Repair, Minor  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Automotive Sales or Rental  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Bakery, Retail  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Bank or Financial Service  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Bed and Breakfast, § 9.8  	SE  	 	SE  	 	 	 	 	  	Boat Sales and Service  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Broadcast Studio, Radio or Television  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Business or Professional Office  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Business Support Service  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Campground  	SE  	 	 	C  	C  	 	 	  	Car Wash  	 	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Caterer  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Commercial Parking  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Commercial School  	 	Y  	 	 	 	 	Y  	  	Construction Supply, Lumber Yard  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Contractor Storage Yard  	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Dairy or Creamery  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Drive-in Theater, § 9.4  	 	 	 	C  	SE  	 	 	  	Entertainment, Indoor (comedy club, movie theater, etc.)
Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Food Products Manufacturing, Light  	SE  	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Freight Depot, Truck Terminal  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y   	Funeral Home  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Garden Center, Nursery  	SE  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Gas Station, § 9.5  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	General Retail, Enclosed  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	General Retail, Unenclosed  	 	 	 	SE  	SE  	 	Y  	Y   	Home Improvement Center  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Hotel  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Landfill  	C  	 	 	 	 	 	C  	C   	Laundering Plant  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Laundry Service (pick-up station)  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Liquor Sales for off-premises consumption only  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Liquor Sales with on-premises consumption  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Maintenance Service (janitorial, plumbing, exterminator)  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Manufactured Home Sales, Repair  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Manufacturing, Heavy  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y   	Manufacturing, Light  	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Medical or Dental Clinic  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	  	Medical Support Services  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	  	Mini-warehouse, § 9.11  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Motel  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Pawn Shop  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Personal Services (barber, salon, tailor, shoe repair, etc.)
Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Printing Service  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Repair Service, Major (large appliances)  	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Repair Service, Minor (small engine, electronics, etc.)
Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Recreation, Indoor (spa, gymnasium, health club, etc.)
Y  	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Recycling Center  	 	 	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE  	SE   	Recycling Plant  	 	 	 	 	 	 	SE  	Y   	Research Laboratory  	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Resource Extraction and Processing  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y   	Restaurant, Fast Food (with drive-through or drive-in)  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Restaurant, Standard  	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	 	  	Salvage or Junk Yard  	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Seafood Store, Retail  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Studio (artist, photography, dance, etc.)
Y  	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Textiles Production  	Y  	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Truck and Heavy Equipment Sales, Rental, Repair  	 	 	 	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Truck Stop  	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y  	Y   	Veterinary Hospital  	 	 	Y  	Y  	Y  	 	Y  	  	Warehousing and Distribution, Enclosed  	 	 	 	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Warehousing and Distribution, Unenclosed  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Y   	Wholesaler, no on-site storage  	 	 	Y  	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Wholesaler, with on-site storage  	 	 	 	 	Y  	 	Y  	Y   	Wood or Lumber Processing (sawmills, planning mills, etc.)
Y       Y - The use is permitted by right, subject to any limitations of the applicable district.
Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted subject to § 5.1.2 and § 5.1.3.
SE - Special, exception Use, requires approval by the board of zoning adjustment (see § 13.6).
May also be subject to district limitations.
C - Conditional use, required approval by the commission (see § 12.11).
May also be subject to district limitations.
A use followed by a numeric cross-reference is also subject to the supplementary use regulations referenced.
A blank cell indicates that the use is prohibited.
Table 7-2.
Area and Dimensional Requirements for Nonresidential Districts   	Refer also to the applicable District Regulations for any Development Criteria that may modify or supplement the requirements shown herein.
District  	AR  	C-1  	C-2  	C-3  	C-4  	INST  	M-1  	M-2   	Min.
Lot Size 1  	1 acre  	na  	5,000 sf.
na  	15,000 sf.
5,000 sf.
1 acre  	1 acre   	Min.
Lot Width (at Building Line)  	200 ft.  	25 ft.  	50 ft.  	25 ft.  	75 ft.  	25 ft.  	75 ft.  	75 ft.   	Min.
Lot Frontage  	50 ft.  	25 ft.  	25 ft.  	25 ft.  	25 ft.  	25 ft.  	75 ft.  	75 ft.   	Min.
Front Yard Setback 2  	50 ft.  	10 ft. 3  	25 ft.  	25 ft.  	20 ft.  	na  	50 ft.  	50 ft.   	Min.
Rear Yard Setback  	50 ft.  	20 ft.  	20 ft.  	20 ft.  	20 ft.  	20 ft.  	25 ft.  	50 ft.   	Min.
Side Yard Setback  	25 ft.  	na  	na  	na  	15 ft.  	na  	15 ft.  	25 ft.   	Max.
Lot Coverage  	5%  	na  	35%  	75%  	75%  	50%  	50%  	50%   	Max.
Building Height  	2½ stories or 35 ft.  	5 stories or 65 ft.  	3 stories or 45 ft.  	5 stories or 65 ft.  	5 stories of 65 ft.  	3 stories of 45 ft.  	4 stories or 50 ft.  	4 stories or 50 ft.       1.
It is the intent of this ordinance that lots of sufficient size be used for any commercial, industrial or related use to provide adequate parking and loading space and buffers, if applicable, in addition to the space required for the other normal operations of the business or service.
2.
Refer to district regulations for, exceptions to these general front yard requirements.
ARTICLE 8.
- PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT REGULATIONS   Sec.
8.1.
- Planned development regulations, generally.
8.1.1.
Procedure.
The procedure to be followed in the creation of a planned development district shall conform to the regulations for any other zone change with the following, exceptions:   1.
Any petition for the establishment of a planned development district shall be made in the form of a master plan as prescribed in this section and shall be submitted to the commission for review and recommendation.
It shall be the burden of the applicant to show through the master plan:   a.
That the proposed development is consistent with the intent and purpose of the Opp Strategic Plan and of this ordinance to promote public health, safety and the general welfare.
b.
That the value and character of property adjacent to the planned development will not be adversely affected.
c.  That the proposed master plan meets the requirements of all other regulating bodies.
2.
The establishment of a planned development district will be for the express purpose of improving the land for uses in accordance with an approved master plan.
3.
After a recommendation by the commission, rezoning to a planned development district may be considered by the council concurrently with consideration of the master plan.
Such rezoning, if approved, shall remain valid for the duration of the master plan approval (see § 8.1.5).
4.
Unless specific variations are noted on the master plan and approved by the commission, the most restrictive requirements for parking, loading, yards and dimensional regulations for the proposed use as, provided in this ordinance shall apply.
8.1.2.
Master plan submittal.
Any application for a planned development district shall be submitted to the zoning official and shall include a conceptual plan showing the entire development site and all phases of the proposed development, and shall graphically express the overall development concept for the site at completion.
The master plan shall also include a proposed schedule for completion of the overall development and any individual phases.
The master plan shall be drawn to scale by an engineer, architect or landscape architect registered in the State of Alabama and shall include the information listed in appendix 2.
8.1.3.
Effect of the plan, amendment.
Once approved, a master plan shall become a binding condition upon the site, and each phase shall be substantially consistent with the plan.
The building inspector may not issue a building permit unless the proposed improvements are substantially as shown in the approved master plan.
Minor changes may be approved by the zoning official.
Major changes shall require approval by the commission.
Any of the following shall constitute a major change:   1.
Any increase or reduction in the land area of the project site;   2.
A change of five percent or more in the total number, or in the type, of dwelling units approved;   3.
A reduction of five percent or more of the approved amount of resource protection area or recreation or open space;   4.
Any significant addition, removal, or rearrangement of land uses or streets.
8.1.4.
Effect on prior zoning.
Approval of a planned development district by the council replaces the prior zoning of the site.
8.1.5.
Duration of master plan approval.
1.
If, within 365 days from the effective date of the master plan approval, the building inspector has not received an application for a building permit, the master plan approval shall become void and the property shall revert to the zoning classification assigned to the property prior to the PDD approval.
Upon receipt of a written request from the applicant, the council may extend this period for one year.
2.
Once a building permit is issued, the improvements set forth in the master plan shall be completed within the time period set forth in the schedule approved as part of the master plan.
Sec.
8.2.
- Planned Unit Development (P-1) District.
8.2.1.
Intent.
The P-1 district is designed to provide flexibility, in contrast with the regulations of conventional zoning districts, for the creation of a variety of residential and mixed-use developments in order to encourage innovation, creativity and efficiency in the use of land and the creation of usable open spaces.
8.2.2.
Site requirements.
Each P-1 district shall contain at least 15 acres.
8.2.3.
Uses permitted.
Residential, institutional and commercial uses shall be allowed.
At least 60 percent of the site shall be planned for residential use.
Any use not specified above as permitted is prohibited.
Any additional uses shall be allowed only through amendment of this ordinance.
8.2.4.
Off-street parking requirements.
Parking standards are determined through the review process, with minimum standards consistent with the normal parking requirements of this ordinance.
Joint usage of parking facilities is encouraged and may be, at the option of the commission and council, serve as a basis for the reduction of total parking spaces required.
8.2.5.
Development criteria.
1.
Similar uses and densities of uses should face one another across streets, i.e., detached single-family dwellings should face other single-family dwellings.
The following relationships are also acceptable:   a.
Any uses may face recreational or other open spaces.
b.
High-density residential uses may face nonresidential uses.
2.
Nonresidential and higher density residential uses should be located on major internal streets and/or near to major external streets.
Higher density residential uses should be placed to provide a transition between lower density residential uses and nonresidential uses, if applicable.
3.
The development should be planned and designed to minimize disruption of flood prone areas, steep slopes, tree canopy, and sensitive plant and animal habitats.
As much as possible, such natural spaces should be linked together, which may be in the form of a greenway trail system.
4.
An interconnected network of pedestrian routes should be, provided, which may consist of sidewalks and off-road paths.
Such pedestrian facilities are most critical in areas with high-density residential, retail and mixed-use development.
5.
At least ten percent of the site shall be retained, improved and maintained as open space for the recreational use of residents.
Small remnant spaces and linear strips less than 40 ft. in average width, and other spaces with limited accessibility, shall not be counted toward this criterion.
6.
Landscaping.
Trees, shrubs and other landscaping treatments should be included where buildings are set back from frontages.
7.
Buffers and screening.
Uses within the development that are incompatible with existing adjacent uses shall be buffered and/or screened in a manner consistent with § 11.1, buffers, and § 11.3, screening.
Alternative methods for buffering and screening of uses internal to the development may be proposed by the developer.
8.
Commercial development may not be started until residential development is 25 percent complete and occupied.
Sec.
8.3.
- Planned Neighborhood (P-2) District.
8.3.1.
Intent.
The P-2 district is designed to facilitate the development of neighborhoods that, through the arrangement, proximity and interconnection of varied residential densities and neighborhood-serving nonresidential uses, create an attractive, safe and comfortable neighborhood environment that encourages walking, bicycling, accessibility and community interaction and recreation.
A planned neighborhood:   1.
Is compact and designed for the human scale;   2.
Provides a mix of uses in close proximity to one another within the neighborhood;   3.
Provides a mix of housing styles, types, and sizes to accommodate households of all ages, sizes, and incomes;   4.
Incorporates a system of relatively narrow, interconnected streets with sidewalks and bikeways that offer multiple routes for motorists, pedestrians, and bicyclists and provides for the connections of those streets to existing and future developments; and   5.
Incorporates significant environmental features into the design.
8.3.2.
Site requirements.
For new development, a planned neighborhood shall include 40 acres or more, or 2) 30 acres or more for development contiguous to existing neighborhoods.
8.3.3.
Definitions.
The following definitions shall be observed, unless otherwise indicated by context:   1.
Building scale: The relationship between the size of a building and its surroundings, including street width, open space, and surrounding buildings.
2.
Commons: An open space, predominantly softscape, and enclosed on at least two sides by attached or detached single-family dwellings.
3.
Plaza: A civic space, predominantly hardscaped, and enclosed on at least two sides by building facades.
Plazas may be publicly or privately owned but, in either case, are designed and maintained for public use.
4.
Square: A common open space that serves as the focal point for a traditional neighborhood.
It is typically surrounded by commercial, institutional or mixed-uses.
8.3.4.
Master plan submittal.
In addition to the requirements of § 8.1.2, master plan submittal, applications shall also include:   1.
A pattern book representing the site design and architectural patterns of typical residential and nonresidential buildings.
Design patterns may be conveyed with illustrations of typical proposed elevations including building heights, widths and facade treatments;   2.
The location of sidewalks, trails, passages and other pedestrian and bicycle circulation elements; and   3.
A utilities plan showing underground and aboveground lines and structures for sanitary sewers, electricity, gas telecommunications, etc.
8.3.5.
Ownership and maintenance of open spaces.
See § 5.18.
8.3.6.
Permitted uses and arrangements.
A planned neighborhood should consist of a mix of residential areas, one or more neighborhood center(s), and common open space(s).
1.
Open space.
At least ten percent of the gross acreage must be open space.
At least 25 percent of the open space shall be common open space or dedicated for public use.
All medium- and high-density residential blocks shall be within 1,400 ft. from a common open space or park.
2.
Residential areas.
A mix of the following land uses may be located with flexibility throughout the residential portions of the site.
Higher density residential uses should be located nearest a neighborhood center.
For infill development, the mix of residential uses may be satisfied by existing residential uses adjacent to the development.
a.
Residential uses.
Single-family detached dwellings, duplexes and row houses; townhouses; multifamily dwellings; independent and assisted living, group care homes, and similar residential care facilities; and accessory buildings (including accessory dwellings).
b.
Open space uses.
The following are permitted: neighborhood parks; commons; playgrounds; and stormwater retention/detention facilities (where incorporated into one of the above).
3.
Neighborhood centers.
A planned neighborhood will include a neighborhood center composed of a mix of the following uses.
The development should be laid out such that all residential blocks are within 2,800 ft., measured along pedestrian routes, from a neighborhood center.
a.
Commercial uses.
Individual businesses should generally not exceed 6,000 sf.
In addition, the following uses are permitted and encouraged:   1)  Food services, including, but not limited to, neighborhood grocery stores; butchers and bakeries; restaurants; coffee shops; neighborhood bars.
2)  Retail uses, including, but not limited to, florists; nurseries; hardware stores; book stores; studios and shops of artists; clothing and home décor stores.
3)  Services, including, but not limited to, day care centers; music, dance or exercise studios; business and professional offices; barber; hair salon; dry cleaning.
4)  Bed and breakfasts and other small lodging uses.
b.
Residential uses.
The following are permitted: single-family detached dwellings, duplexes, townhouses and row houses; multifamily dwellings, including independent and assisted living facilities and group living quarters; and upper-story dwellings.
c.  Civic or institutional uses.
The following are permitted: municipal offices, fire stations, libraries, museums, and post offices; places of assembly; and schools.
d.  Open space uses.
The following are permitted: squares; plazas; pocket parks; playgrounds; stormwater retention/detention facilities (where incorporated into one of the above).
8.3.7.
Density, height and design standards.
P-2 developments shall comply with table 8-3 and:   1.
One accessory dwelling per single-family lot shall be permitted in addition to the permitted densities, provided in table 8-3.
2.
Nonresidential GFA.
The total ground floor area of nonresidential uses, including off-street parking areas, shall not exceed 25 percent of the development, except where the planned Neighborhood is oriented around and integrated with, through the interconnection of vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian ways, adjacent residential development.
3.
Lot and block standards.
a.
Blocks shall be 400—800 ft. long.
Blocks longer than 600 ft. shall have a permanent pedestrian passage across the depth of the block.
The passage shall be located not more than 300 ft. from the nearest cross street and shall be, provided in an easement not less than 12 ft. in width.
The walkway shall be no less than eight ft. in width.
b.
Residential lot sizes should be varied to allow for diverse housing types.
c.  Lots less than 60 ft. in width shall be rear-accessed.
4.
Building frontage standards.
Setbacks shall be consistent along a block frontage and as follows:   a.
For single-family detached dwellings, unenclosed porches may extend no closer than eight ft. to the back of [the] sidewalk.
b.
For any dwellings located closer than ten ft. to the back of sidewalk, the first floor level shall be at least two ft. above or at least three ft. below sidewalk level.
c.  Nonresidential buildings are not required to be set back from front lot lines, but shall abut directly on a public sidewalk or be set back at the edge of a plaza.
Civic or institutional buildings may also be set back at the edges of squares, lawns or similar frontages.
5.
Side and rear building spacing, except as required in table 8-3, side and rear building spacing shall be proposed in the master plan and in accordance with the city building code.
Accessory structures shall be set back from side and rear lot lines as required in § 5.9.
Table 8-3.
Density, Height and Dimensional Standards, P-2 District   	Residential Areas   	Uses  	Single-family detached and duplex dwellings  	Single-family attached dwellings  	Multifamily dwellings   	Max.
Density per gross acre  	6 DU/acre  	8 DU/acre  	15 DU/acre   	Front Yard Setback (measured to back of sidewalk)  	12 ft. min.
25 ft. max  	12 ft. min.
18 ft. max.
12 ft. min.
18 ft. max.
Min.
Side Building Spacing  	ten ft. from any other dwelling  	ten ft. from single-family detached and duplex dwellings  	20 ft. from single-family detached and duplex dwellings   	Min.
Rear Building Spacing  	20 ft. from any other principal building   	Max.
Building Height  	3 stories of 45 ft.  	3 stories or 45 ft.  	4 stories or 65 ft.
Neighborhood Centers   	Uses  	Single-family attached dwellings  	Multifamily dwellings  	Nonresidential and Mixed-uses   	Max.
Density per gross acre  	10 DU/acre  	20 DU/acre  	na   	Front Yard Setback (measured to back of sidewalk)  	0 ft. min.
and 18 ft.
max.
; see also § 8.3.7.4   	Min.
Side Building Spacing  	10 ft. from single-family detached and duplex dwellings  	20 ft. from single-family detached and duplex dwellings   	Min.
Rear Building Spacing  	20 ft. from any other principal building   	Max.
Building Height  	3 stories or 45 ft.  	4 stories or 65 ft.  	4 stories or 65 ft.       8.3.8.
Circulation standards.
The circulation system shall support multi-modal transportation; interconnect residential areas, neighborhood center(s), and open spaces; and shall be connected to existing and proposed external development.
The circulation system shall provide adequate traffic capacity, provide access from streets of lesser classification, and promote safe and efficient mobility.
1.
Pedestrian circulation.
Where feasible, any existing pedestrian routes through the site shall be preserved and enhanced.
Sidewalks shall be, provided as follows:   a.
Public sidewalks shall be, provided on both sides of any street within a neighborhood center or medium- or high-density residential area and only on one side of any street within low-density residential areas in accordance with the following:   1)  Neighborhood centers: Sidewalks shall be at least ten ft. wide with a clear pedestrian zone of at least six ft. in width   2)  Medium and high density residential areas (four or more DU/acre): Sidewalks shall be at least five ft. wide and buffered from the street by a planting strip at least four ft. wide   3)  Low density residential areas (less than four DU/acre): Sidewalks shall be at least four ft. wide and buffered from the street by a planting strip or swale at least six ft. wide   b.
In neighborhood centers, well-lit walkways of at least five ft. in width shall connect building entrances to public sidewalks and to associated parking areas.
c.  Sidewalks shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
d.  Crosswalks shall be well-lit and clearly marked.
2.
Vehicular circulation shall be designed to minimize conflicts with pedestrians and bicycles.
Traffic calming features such as on-street parking, narrow travel lanes, horizontal curves, curb extensions, roundabouts, and medians may be used to encourage slow traffic speeds.
3.
The development plan should maintain the existing street grid, where present, and restore any disrupted street grid where feasible.
In addition:   a.
Corner curb radii should be kept to the minimum practicable, given the size of vehicles expected to use the particular intersection and the intended rate of speed at which turns will be taken.
b.
All streets shall terminate at other streets or at public land, with the following, exceptions:   1)  Local streets may terminate in stub streets;   2)  Local streets may terminate at a connection to the pedestrian and bicycle path network.
3)  Where circumstances prevent the local street from terminating at another street or public land and the, exceptions under items 1) and 2) above are not practical, the local street may terminate in a cul-de-sac or "close" in accordance with the standards contained in the subdivision regulations.
8.3.9.
Parking standards.
Parking areas for shared or community use should be encouraged.
In addition:   1.
In multifamily and nonresidential areas, parking lots shall be located at the rear or side of buildings.
2.
Off-street parking shall be accessed from an alley or shared driveway, except that single-family dwellings with lots wider than 60 ft. may have individual driveways.
3.
Parking lots and parking garages should be separated from intersections by a building containing a use other than parking.
4.
On-street parking, if created as a part of the development, may apply toward minimum parking requirements.
5.
Parking for residential uses shall be, provided on-site.
6.
Paving shall be as normally required by the city, except as follows:   a.  Ribbon driveways may be used for single-family detached dwellings, duplexes, and row houses to reduce impervious surfaces.
b.
To reduce impervious surfaces, interlocking pavers, grid pavers, or other pervious paving systems may be required for remote parking lots and parking areas for periodic uses.
8.3.10.
Outdoor lighting.
Street lighting shall be, provided along all streets.
Generally, a larger number of smaller lights—as opposed to fewer, high-intensity lights—should be used.
Streetlights shall be installed on both sides of the street at intervals of no greater than 80 ft.   8.3.11.
Architectural standards.
A variety of architectural features and building materials is encouraged to give each building or group of buildings a distinct character.
1.
The architectural features, materials, and the articulation of a facade shall be continued on all sides visible from a public street or common area.
2.
Principal buildings and their main entrances shall face a public street; except, however, that up to five percent of the total number of single-family dwelling units may front directly on a commons.
3.
Porches, stoops or other architectural elements should define the front entrance to residences.
4.
For commercial buildings, at least 50 percent of the street level facade shall be window or door openings.
5.
Buildings on opposite sides of the same street should be similar in scale and setback.
8.3.12.
Landscaping and screening standards.
1.
Street trees.
A minimum of one canopy street tree per 40 ft. of street frontage shall be, provided and evenly spaced.
Street trees shall be located in a continuous planting strip, or in tree wells, adjacent to the curb.
In the case of existing overhead utility lines, understory street trees may be substituted.
2.
Screening shall be, provided as required in § 11.3.
8.3.13.
Stormwater management.
The design and development of the planned neighborhood should minimize off-site stormwater runoff, promote on-site filtration, and minimize the discharge of pollutants to ground and surface water.
Natural topography and existing land cover should be protected/maintained to the maximum extent practicable.
Planned neighborhood developments shall be subject to the following, in addition to any other applicable regulations:   1.
Untreated, direct stormwater discharges to wetlands or surface waters are not allowed.
2.
Post-development peak discharge rates should not exceed predevelopment peak rates.
3.
Erosion and sediment controls must be implemented to remove 80 percent of the average annual load of total suspended solids.
4.
Redevelopment stormwater management systems should improve existing conditions and meet standards to the extent practicable.
5.
All treatment systems or BMPs must have operation and maintenance plans to ensure that systems function as designed.
8.3.14.
Utilities.
Overhead utilities shall only be permitted in easements or alley rights-of-way at the rear of lots.
Overhead utilities are permitted to cross streets as necessary to comply with this requirement.
Otherwise, utilities shall be located underground.
Sec.
8.4.
- Planned Industrial Development District.
8.4.1.
Intent.
The PID district is designed to facilitate the development of industrial and compatible nonresidential uses within integrally planned, multi-tenant industrial sites.
The PID district provides flexibility from normally required Manufacturing district regulations to encourage creative and efficient site planning; to encourage shared and cross access within industrial developments; and to promote the development of stable, high-quality employment centers.
Furthermore, provisions for common open spaces and on-site pedestrian circulation are encouraged.
8.4.2.
Site requirements.
Each PID district shall contain a minimum of 15 acres and a minimum frontage of 200 ft. on a public street.
8.4.3.
Master plan submittal.
The master plan shall be prepared in accordance with § 8.1 and shall include the information listed in appendix 2.
8.4.4.
Ownership and maintenance of open spaces.
See § 5.18.
8.4.5.
Permitted uses.
All those uses permitted by right, upon special, exception and as conditional uses in the M-1 and M-2 districts in table 7-1 may be permitted subject to approval of the master plan, including any conditions attached thereto.
Additional nonresidential uses, including, but not limited to, dining, meeting facilities and personal service establishments, may be approved as a part of the master plan, provided they are designed and arranged exclusively for the use of businesses within the PID, their employees and visitors.
8.4.6.
Development criteria.
1.
Building setbacks shall only be required as follows:   a.
No front setback shall be required along the developed side of internal streets when a planting strip at the back of curb and a sidewalk, each five ft. in width, are, provided.
Otherwise, the minimum front setback shall be 75 ft.   b.
No side or rear yards are required, except:   1)  Buildings shall be separated in accordance with city building and fire codes.
2)  Buffers shall be, provided where normally required by § 11.1.
Any uses involving the manufacturing, storage or use, in any manner, of explosives or volatile materials shall be set back from internal and external property lines as required by the commission upon a recommendation from the fire marshal.
c.  Any vehicular use area located forward of the front building line shall be separated from any public or internal streets by frontage landscaping as normally required by § 11.2.3.
2.
Building heights.
The maximum building height shall be five stories or 75 ft., whichever is less.
However, all buildings located within 200 ft. of the nearest boundary line of an R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-5 district shall not exceed three stories or 45 ft. in height, whichever is less.
3.
Open space.
At least 20 percent of the PID acreage shall be, provided as open space and improved for the recreational use of PID tenants, employees and their visitors.
Required buffers or other required landscaping shall not be counted toward this requirement.
4.
Internal streets shall comply with the design requirements of the subdivision regulations and any applicable city specifications.
Internal streets may be dedicated to the city or privately maintained.
5.
Parking, loading and access.
a.  Off-street parking shall be, provided consistent with the requirements of article 9.
Parking may be, provided on individual sites, in common areas, and as on-street parking on internal streets.
b.  Abutting sites should use shared and/or cross access.
Parking and loading areas should be located to the side or rear of buildings.
6.
Design standards.
The master plan shall include design standards consistent with the following:   a.  All-metal facades are discouraged.
One or more masonry materials (i.e., concrete, concrete block, stucco/EIFS, brick, and stone) should be used on all building elevations visible from public and internal streets.
b.
Building entrances, if not fronting on public or internal streets, should be identifiable from such streets.
c.  Attached signage is recommended.
The master plan shall establish specific height and placement standards on any freestanding signage.
d.  The master plan shall provide for landscaping, buffers and screening as normally required in article 11, except:   1)  Landscaping along the perimeter of vehicular use areas shall not be required, except along street frontages.
2)  Buffers shall not be required between uses internal to the PID.
7.
Noise standards.
PID developments shall comply with the noise standards in § 5.19.
ARTICLE 9.
- SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS   Sec.
9.1.
- Automobile wrecking, salvage and junk yards.
9.1.1.
No operation shall be located nearer than 300 ft. from any established residential district.
9.1.2.
All outdoor storage of salvage and wrecking operations shall be conducted within an enclosed solid fence or wall as required by § 11.3, screening.
9.1.3.
The storage of salvaged or junk materials shall not exceed six ft. in height from grade level.
Sec.
9.2.
- Cemetery.
9.2.1.
All cemeteries hereafter established shall have direct access to major streets with ingress and egress so designed to minimize traffic congestion.
9.2.2.
Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing not less than ten acres.
Structures shall be set back as required in the applicable district.
All grass or burial lots shall be set back no less than 25 ft. from any lot line.
Sec.
9.3.
- Home occupation.
9.3.1.
A home occupation shall be limited to the gainful occupation or profession conducted by members of the family residing entirely within the dwelling unit.
9.3.2.
No internal or external alterations shall be made which are not customary to dwellings.
In any dwelling unit, all home occupations, collectively, shall not occupy more than 25 percent of the gross floor area of the dwelling nor exceed 500 sf., whichever is more restrictive.
9.3.3.
The entrance to the space devoted to the home occupation shall be from within the dwelling.
9.3.4.
No display shall be permitted or goods or services that are visible from the outside of the structure, except for one non-illuminated sign having an area of not more than two sf., which may be placed flat on a door, wall or window only.
9.3.5.
Home occupations shall be limited to goods and services, provided to individuals or groups not exceeding, at any given time, five in number.
Sec.
9.4.
- Drive-in theater.
9.4.1.
The site must have direct access to a major street with ingress and egress separated and marked to minimize traffic congestion.
9.4.2.
The theater screen shall not be visible from any public street within 1,500 ft.   9.4.3.
Automobile parking in the viewing area shall be effectively screened on all sides consistent with the standards in § 11.3, screening.
9.4.4.
All accessory structures shall comply with the yard setbacks required for principal structures in the applicable district.
9.4.5.
Off-street admission waiting space for patrons shall be equal to 20 percent of the capacity of the theater.
The sale of refreshments and play area shall be limited to the use of patrons of the theater.
9.4.6.
No central loudspeaker system is permitted.
9.4.7.
All parking and access ways shall be adequately lighted; however, all lighting shall be shielded to prevent glare or reflection onto a public street or adjoining property.
Sec.
9.5.
- Service stations.
9.5.1.
Buildings shall be set back no less than 50 ft. from all street lines, except where pump islands and vehicular areas are located to the side and/or rear of the building, in which cases the normal district setbacks shall apply.
9.5.2.
Gasoline pumping islands shall not be located closer than 30 ft. to any street line; however, when pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the street, the pump island shall be located no less than 45 ft. from the street line.
9.5.3.
Attached and detached canopies shall not extend closer than 15 ft. from the street line.
Sec.
9.6.
- Utility stations and substations.
9.6.1.
All electrical power substations shall be enclosed within a fence or wall or be so designed to be inaccessible to unauthorized persons.
Electrical power substations in all zones, except manufacturing districts shall be enclosed by a planting screen with a minimum height of six ft. and otherwise in accordance with § 11.3, screening.
9.6.2.
Required setbacks for buildings shall apply to power substations and shall be measured from the fencing enclosure, except that setbacks along property lines adjacent to streets and alleys shall not be less than 15 ft. regardless of other setback requirements, and that such enclosures shall not be constructed closer than ten ft. to adjoining properties.
9.6.3.
Utility lines shall approach the substation from the side opposite the main traffic artery where possible.
Distribution lines may be run underground from any orientation.
9.6.4.
Public or privately owned utility stations other than electrical power substations shall be enclosed by a planting screen of such height, depth and density to screen the structure from view.
Fencing shall be required where such structures present hazards to animals or people.
Structures extending above the ground in excess of two ft. shall comply with the same regulations as required for power substations.
9.6.5.
Should the public utility company not be able to comply with the above regulations, it may submit a proposed site plan of the desired installation to the commission for approval and recommendations to the council.
The site plan shall include those materials listed in appendix 1, as applicable.
Sec.
9.7.
- Conservation subdivision.
9.7.1.
Intent.
1.
To provide flexibility to achieve the most effective development on lands constrained by natural hazards or environmental regulations, which may limit the amount or type of development;   2.
To enhance quality of life by promoting the creation of accessible green space;   3.
To protect sensitive, environmental land features to protect the health and safety of residents and neighboring property owners;   4.
To reduce erosion, sedimentation, land disturbance, and removal of vegetation;   5.
To promote construction of convenient walking trails, bike paths, and greenways within new developments that are connected to adjacent neighborhoods and activity centers to increase accessibility for pedestrians and bicyclists; and   6.
To reduce perceived density by providing access to and views of open space.
9.7.2.
Applicability.
The conservation subdivision/development option is permitted for detached single-family and duplex development on-sites of at least 15 acres and otherwise in accordance with table 6-1.
The applicant shall comply with all other provisions of this ordinance and all other applicable regulations, except those incompatible with the provisions herein.
9.7.3.
Ownership of development site.
If held in multiple ownership, the site shall be developed according to a single plan with common authority and common maintenance responsibility as approved by the city attorney.
9.7.4.
Density determination.
The maximum number of lots shall be determined by dividing the total area of the proposed subdivision by the most restrictive of the following: minimum lot size of the applicable district or by regulations as determined by city and/or county health department standards for septic tanks, or by any regulations applicable to the site that may limit its development density.
In making this calculation, the following shall not be included in the total area of the parcel:   1.
Bodies of open water over 5,000 sf.
of contiguous area; and   2.
Wetlands, as defined by the Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act.
9.7.5.
Application requirements.
1.
Site analysis map.
Concurrent with the submission of a preliminary plat or site plan, the applicant shall prepare and submit a site analysis map.
The purpose of the site analysis map is to ensure that important site features have been adequately identified prior to the creation of the site design, and that the proposed open space will meet the requirements herein.
The plan shall include the following:   a.
Property boundaries;   b.
All streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands, flood hazard boundaries, and other hydrologic features;   c.  All boundaries of applicable regulated buffer areas, easements, and ROWs;   d.  Topography at five ft. or smaller intervals;   e.  All primary and secondary conservation areas labeled by type, as described in § 9.7.6;   f.  General vegetation characteristics;   g.  General soil types;   h.  Planned location of protected open space;   i.
Existing roads and structures; and   j.
Potential connections with existing greenspace and trails.
2.
Conservation subdivision plan.
The developer shall prepare a conservation subdivision plan, which yields no more lots than identified under § 9.7.4.
The conservation subdivision plan may include lots that do not meet the size and setback requirements of the applicable district.
The conservation subdivision plan shall identify all open spaces to be protected and include an open space management plan pursuant to § 9.7.6.
The conservation subdivision plan shall be submitted, in full, prior to the issuance of a grading permit.
3.
Instrument of permanent protection.
An instrument of permanent protection, such as a conservation easement or permanent restrictive covenant and as described in § 9.7.7, shall be placed on the open space at the time of issuance of a grading permit.
4.
Other requirements.
The applicant shall adhere to all other applicable requirements of the applicable district and the subdivision regulations.
9.7.6.
Open space management plan.
For the purposes of conservation subdivisions, [the term] "open space" is defined as the portion of the conservation subdivision that has been set aside for permanent protection.
Activities within the open space are restricted in perpetuity through the use of a legal instrument approved by the city attorney.
Such open spaces shall be in accordance with the following:   1.
The minimum restricted open space shall comprise at least 25 percent of the gross tract area.
2.
The following are considered primary conservation areas and are required to be included within the open space, unless the applicant demonstrates that this provision would constitute an unusual hardship and be counter to the purposes of the conservation subdivision:   a.
The 100-year floodplain;   b.  Riparian zones of at least 75 ft. [in] width along all perennial and intermittent streams;   c.  Slopes above 25 percent of at least 10,000 sf.
contiguous area;   d.  Wetlands, as defined by the Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act;   e.  Existing trails that connect the site to neighboring areas; and   f.  Archaeological sites, cemeteries and burial grounds.
3.
The following are considered secondary conservation areas and should be included within the open space to the maximum extent feasible:   a.
Important historic sites;   b.
Existing healthy, native forests of at least one acre [of] contiguous area;   c.  Individual existing healthy trees greater than eight inches caliper; and   d.  Other significant natural features and scenic viewsheds, particularly those that can be seen from public roads.
4.
Utility ROWs and small areas of impervious surface may be included within the protected open space but cannot be counted towards the 25 percent minimum area requirement (exception: historic structures and existing trails may be counted).
Large areas of impervious surface shall be excluded from the open space.
5.
At least 33 percent of the open space shall be suitable for passive recreational use.
6.
At least 75 percent of the open space shall be in a contiguous tract, which may be divided by a local street whose area shall be excluded from the open space.
The open space shall adjoin any neighboring areas of open space, other protected areas, and non-protected natural areas that would be candidates for inclusion as part of a future area of protected open space.
7.
The open space shall be directly accessible to the largest practicable number of lots and/or buildings within the site.
Non-abutting lots shall be, provided with safe, convenient access to the open space.
8.
Open spaces may contain the following:   a.
Conservation of natural, archeological or historical resources;   b.  Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game preserves, or similar conservation-oriented areas;   c.  Walking or bicycle trails constructed of porous paving materials;   d.  Passive recreation areas, such as open fields;   e.  Active recreation areas, provided that they are limited to no more than ten percent of the total open space and are not located within primary conservation areas.
Active recreation areas may include impervious surfaces.
Active recreation areas in excess of this limit must be located outside of the protected open space.
f.  Landscaped stormwater management facilities, community and individual wastewater disposal systems located on soils particularly suited to such uses.
Such facilities shall be located outside of primary conservation areas;   g.  Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility lines;   h.  Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes of this section.
9.
Open spaces may not contain the following:   a.
Golf courses;   b.
Roads, parking lots and similar impervious surfaces, except as specifically authorized in the previous subsections;   c.  Agricultural and forestry activities not conducted according to accepted best management practices;   d.  Impoundments; and   e.  Other activities as determined by the applicant and recorded on the legal instrument providing for permanent protection.
10.
Ownership and maintenance of open space.
See § 5.18.
9.7.7.
Legal instrument for protection of open space.
The open space shall be protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument recorded with the deed.
The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on use of the open space, including all restrictions contained in this section, and any restrictions the applicant chooses to place on the open space.
The instrument shall be one of the following:   1.
A permanent conservation easement in favor of either:   a.
A land trust or similar conservation-oriented nonprofit organization with legal authority to accept such easements.
The organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence, and the conveyance instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or   b.
A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals compatible with the purposes of this section, and if the entity accepting the easement is not the city, then a third right of enforcement favoring the city shall be included in the easement.
2.
A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in favor of a governmental entity.
3.
An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, as approved by the city attorney.
9.7.8.
Tax assessment of open space.
Once a legal instrument for permanent protection has been placed upon the open space, the county tax assessor shall be requested to reassess the open space at a lower value to reflect its more limited use.
Sec.
9.8.
- Bed and breakfasts.
9.8.1.
Bed and breakfasts shall only be permitted in single-family detached dwellings, shall only be operated by the owner and resident of the dwelling, and shall comply with the following provisions:   9.8.2.
Use regulations.
1.
All guest rooms shall be located within the principal structure.
2.
Bed and breakfasts located in residential districts shall be limited to four guest rooms and shall not employ any individuals not residing on the premises.
3.
Individual guest rooms shall contain no cooking facilities, and no food preparation or cooking shall be allowed.
9.8.3.
Parking.
For each and every approved guest room, there shall be, provided one parking space, in addition to the spaces required for the residence.
Such additional required parking spaces shall be screened from adjacent properties and arranged so that each space has direct access to a driveway.
No parking shall be permitted forward of the front building line, except upon a driveway.
Recreational vehicle parking shall be prohibited.
Sec.
9.9.
- Communication towers.
9.9.1.
Purpose.
The purpose of these guidelines is to establish minimum considerations and criteria for the review of communication towers, hereafter referred to as towers.
It is the commission's express intent that the construction of new towers be an option of last resort.
To the extent feasible, location of antennas on existing towers, building rooftops, and other suitable structures should first be sought.
These guidelines are designed to ensure the compatibility of towers with and avoid adverse impacts to nearby properties and discourage the proliferation of towers throughout the city.
9.9.2.
Applicability.
All communication towers are subject to these guidelines, except the following:   1.
Amateur radio, receive and transmit, antennas.
This section shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is 100 ft. or less in height and is owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator from the operator's residence, or used exclusively and incidentally for the purposes to support a commercial business.
2.
Existing towers and antennas.
If an additional antenna is collocated on an existing tower after the adoption of this ordinance, then security fencing and landscaping requirements are applicable as part of the permitting process, except that operating existing towers shall not be subject to this provision if there is no increase in the height of the tower or of the antenna on such towers up to the towers' present structural capability.
3.
Residential satellite dish less than four ft. in diameter.
9.9.3.
Definitions.
1.
Alternative-tower structure: Clock towers, bell towers, church steeples, light/power poles, electric transmission towers, and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
2.
Communication tower: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers.
The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative communication tower structures, and the like.
A tower compound is a tower(s) and other facilities.
3.
Antenna: An electromagnetic device, which conducts radio signals, through an attached cable or waveguide, to or from a radio transmitter or receiver.
Typically this includes whips, panels and parabolic dishes.
An electromagnetic device includes any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, or television.
4.
Antenna support structure: Any structure on which radio antennas and cabling can be attached.
Typically this includes steel towers with guy-wires (guy towers), wooden, steel or concrete single poles (monopoles); self-supporting steel towers with three or four leg, (towers); rooftops of existing buildings or structures such as elevated water storage tanks.
5.
Cellular site: A parcel of land or building (leased or purchased) on which is located one or more transmitter/receiver stations for wireless communication systems, including accessory facilities for equipment storage and operations.
In cases involving vacant land, or low-lying existing structures, a support structure for transmitter/receiver antennas are usually required.
6.
Height: Vertical distance from nominal ground elevation at base of tower to top of antenna or tower, whichever is higher.
7.
Mini-cellular site: A parcel of land or building (leased or purchased) on which is located one or more transmitter/receiver stations for wireless communication systems, such that towers and/or antennas do not exceed 20 ft. in height above the existing structure, and whips, panels, and parabolic dishes do not exceed 100 sf.
A mini-cellular site accommodates the use of existing structures such as buildings, billboards and water towers.
9.9.4.
Objectives.
The proposed locations and designs of all communications towers shall duly consider the following public health, safety, and general welfare objectives:   1.
Structural safety.
The proposed tower will comply with wind loading and other structural standards contained in the city building code or other applicable standards as adopted by the city; so as not to endanger the health and safety of residents, employees, or travelers in the event of structural failure of the tower due to extreme weather conditions or other acts of God.
2.
View protection.
The proposed tower facility will be designed to minimize adverse visual impacts to surrounding properties and the public right-of-way, given the topography of the proposed site and surrounding area.
3.
Land use compatibility.
The proposed tower facility will be compatible with the surrounding land uses, given the character of use and development of the location.
4.
Design harmony.
The proposed tower facility will be designed in harmony with the natural setting and the surrounding development pattern as well as to the highest industry standards   5.
Existing communication services.
The proposed tower facility will comply with FCC and other applicable agency standards so as not to interfere with existing communications services to the area.
6.
Health effects.
The proposed tower will comply with all applicable federal, state and county health standards so as not to cause detrimental health effects to persons in the surrounding area.
9.9.5.
Development criteria.
The zoning official shall review all communications towers requesting permits for compliance with the applicable criteria listed below.
Any of these criteria may be waived or adjusted by the commission if the circumstances of a particular case so warrant.
In any event, these criteria are considered the minimum necessary to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare; the commission may impose higher standards if it deems necessary to further the objectives of these guidelines.
1.
Collocation.
No new tower shall be established if space is structurally, technically and economically available on an existing tower, which would serve the area that the new tower would serve.
Documentation that reasonable efforts have been made to achieve collocation shall be submitted in accordance with § 9.9.6.4, Towers, shall be designed to maximize share use to the extent possible, given the structural and technical limitations of the type of tower proposed.
If feasible, each tower shall, at a minimum, be designed to accommodate a minimum of two shared users.
2.
Removal of obsolete towers.
Any tower that is no longer in use for its original communications purpose shall be removed at the owner's expense.
The owner shall provide the Opp Planning Department with a copy of the notice to the FCC of intent to cease operations and shall be given 90 days from the date of ceasing operations to remove the obsolete tower and accessory structures.
In the case of multiple operators sharing use of single tower, this provision shall not become effective until all users cease operation.
In the event an abandoned or unused tower and related facilities are not removed within 12 months of the cessation of operation at a site, the tower and related facilities may be removed by the city and the costs of removal assessed against the property.
3.
Setbacks.
Towers shall be setback from all property lines a distance equal to its height.
Guy wires and accessory buildings and facilities shall meet the minimum setback requirements of the zoning district.
As an alternative to setback requirement for towers located in nonresidential zoning districts, a statement from a registered engineer may be, provided certifying that, in the event of structural failure, the tower would fall within the boundaries of the property.
In all cases, towers shall be set back a distance equal to the height of the tower from a public right-of-way.
4.
Appearance.
a.
Towers shall maintain a galvanized steel, concrete finish or similar neutral finish so as to reduce the visibility or camouflage the structure, unless other standards are required by the FAA.
b.
The design of towers shall be of a type that has the least visual impact on the surrounding area.
c.  The design of a tower compound shall, to the extent possible, maximize use of building materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping that effectively blend the tower facilities with the surrounding natural setting and built environment.
These guidelines are also required of roof-mounted towers, antennas, and related equipment collocating on existing towers.
d.  Where communications towers are deemed appropriate for a given location, the type of tower shall be restricted to monopoles in or within 1,000 ft. of residential areas and areas of special aesthetic concerns such as commercial revitalization areas, historic districts and scenic corridors.
e.  No signs or other forms of advertising is permitted on an antenna or tower unless for safety/security precautions.
5.
Lighting.
Towers shall not be artificially lighted unless required by the FAA or other authority for safety purposes.
Where required, the commission shall review the available lighting alternatives and approve that design that would cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views.
"Dual lighting" (red at night/strobe during day) shall be preferred unless restricted by the FAA.
Security lighting may be permitted in accordance with § 9.9.5.9, Security devices, below.
6.
Landscaping.
a.
A landscaped buffer shall effectively screen the view of the tower compound from adjacent public ways and residential properties.
b.
The standard buffer shall consist of a minimum eight-foot-wide landscaped strip outside the perimeter security fencing.
The buffer strip shall be planted with an attractive combination of trees, shrubs, vines, and/or groundcovers that can achieve the full height of the fence at maturity and enhances the outward appearance of the security fence.
For sites within 1,000 ft. of a residence, additional buffering may be imposed to include: a decay resistant, solid wood fence, earth berms and brick or masonry walls in addition to the security fencing.
All fencing and landscaping shall be maintained by the lessor/owner.
The commission shall approve buffer plan and type of plants proposed.
c.  In isolated nonresidential areas, alternative landscaping methods may be accepted, such as the use of earth tone colored security fencing in combination with evergreen shrubs, trees, and/or other plantings.
d.  In certain locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, such as remote, agricultural or rural locations or heavy industrial areas, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
e.  Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms on the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
In some cases, such as towers sited on large, wooded lots, preservation of substantial natural growth around the property perimeter may be a sufficient buffer.
f.  Cellular facilities utilizing underground vaults in lieu of aboveground switching gear buildings shall be exempted from any buffer requirements.
7.
Roof mounted towers and antennas.
a.  Rooftop mounted towers and antennas may be located on any nonresidential building.
b.
Such tower or antenna shall be setback from any residential zoning district a minimum distance equal to two times the full height of the tower and antenna, but in no event less than 100 ft.   c.  The building on which such tower or antenna is placed shall be at least 50 ft. high and the tower or antenna will add no more than 20 ft. total to the height of the building.
d.  Antennas shall not be mounted to extend horizontally beyond the face of the building.
8.
Principal, accessory and joint uses.
a.  Accessory structures used in direct support of a tower shall be allowed but not for offices, vehicle storage or other outdoor storage.
Mobile or immobile equipment not used in direct support of a tower facility shall not be stored or parked on the site of the tower, unless repairs to the tower are being made.
b.
Towers may be located on-sites containing another principal use in the same buildable area.
In determining requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within a lot.
As long as all siting, setback, separation and general requirements of this ordinance are met, towers may occupy a parcel meeting the minimum lot size requirements for the zoning applicable district.
The minimum distance between a tower and the principal use located on the same lot shall be, for a monopole or lattice tower the greater of 20 percent of the tower height or 25 ft., and for a guy tower, the greater of 100 percent or 25 ft.   c.  Joint use of a site is prohibited when a proposed or existing principal use includes the storage, distribution or sale of volatile, flammable, explosive or hazardous materials such as propane, gasoline, natural gas and dangerous chemicals.
d.  Towers constructed or antennas installed in accordance with this ordinance shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a nonconforming use or structure.
9.
Security devices.
The facility shall be fully secured.
A minimum eight-foot-high fence shall be installed around the perimeter of the compound.
Security fencing shall require screening in accordance with § 9.9.5.4, above.
Other security measures shall include locks and alarms.
10.
Access.
a.  Driveways and parking shall be, provided to ensure the operator's access to the facility for maintenance or emergency services.
In some cases, parking/access may be from an adjoining alley, public street, or off-street parking area.
b.
Equipment at a transmission facility shall be automated to the greatest extent possible to reduce traffic and congestion.
Where the site abuts a collector and local street, access for maintenance vehicles shall be exclusively by means of the collector street, except in nonresidential areas, in which case access may be from the local street.
9.9.6.
Application.
Any application submitted for approval shall submit the following items, in addition to any other required items, to show compliance with these review guidelines:   1.
Statement of impact on health, safety and welfare.
A brief written statement shall address conformance with the health, safety and welfare objectives of these guidelines.
2.
Site plan.
A scaled site plan shall show the location and dimensions of all improvements, including setbacks, drives, parking, fencing, landscaping, existing land uses and zoning districts of the surrounding area, and other information necessary to access compliance with the development criteria of these guidelines.
3.
Rendering.
A rendering of the tower, accessory facilities, and compound shall show colors, materials, and treatment.
If lighting or other FAA requirement for tower color is proposed, evidence of such requirement shall be submitted.
4.
Justification for new tower.
A proposal for a new tower shall be documented by the applicant stating the planned equipment for the proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing tower or other alternative structure within the proposed service area.
The applicant shall submit a written affidavit showing what attempts have been made to share an existing tower or that no such tower exists.
The affidavit shall include evidence from a licensed professional engineer or qualified industry expert supporting such claim.
The evidence shall include one or more of the following:   a.
That no existing towers or suitable alternative tower structures are located within the geographic antenna placement area to meet the applicant's engineering requirements.
b.
That existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height or strength to meet applicant's engineering requirements.
c.  That the applicant's proposed antenna or existing towers and/or antennas would cause electromagnetic interference as a result of the installation of the proposed antenna.
d.  That the costs or contractual provisions required by the tower owner to share an existing tower or structure are unreasonable.
e.  That the applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
5.
Certification of shared use design.
A qualified professional engineer, registered in the State of Alabama, shall certify that the proposed tower's structural design can accommodate a minimum of two shared users, in accordance with § 9.9.5, Development criteria.
6.
As built survey.
A qualified professional engineer, registered in the State of Alabama, shall certify that the completed cellular site was built in accordance with the submitted site plan including the installation of any required buffer strip.
Sec.
9.10.
- Upper-story dwellings.
9.10.1.
Upper-story dwellings in mixed-use buildings shall be located on a floor level above a use of another type.
Emergency egress and fire separation shall comply with all requirements of the building and fire codes.
9.10.2.
All upper-story dwellings, whether or not intended for occupancy by the owner of the use located below the dwelling, shall have an entrance separate from the associated use.
9.10.3.
Multifamily dwellings in a mixed-use building.
1.
No nonresidential use shall be located on the same floor in the same building with any multifamily dwelling units.
2.
Multifamily dwelling units shall be accessible from a shared exterior entrance or one interior entrance commonly shared between the different uses housed in the upper floors of the building.
3.
Dwelling units shall not be accessible directly from another unit or use within the building.
Sec.
9.11.
- Mini-warehouses.
9.11.1.
No storage of volatile, toxic or explosive materials shall be permitted, either inside the structure(s) or on the premises.
9.11.2.
Storage spaces shall not be used for commercial activities.
However, this shall not include periodic auctions, which are held on the premises to dispose of items which have been abandoned and/or for which the lease time has expired.
9.11.3.
Screen fencing shall be installed around the perimeter of the development meeting the requirements of § 11.3, screening.
Sec.
9.12.
- Day care facilities.
9.12.1.
Application of regulations.
The provisions of this section shall apply to day care facilities providing service for part of a 24-hour day for children under 16 years of age, for the aged, or for persons who are disabled, by persons giving care (excluding care, provided by relatives).
Day care facilities shall include family day care homes, group day care homes, and day care centers.
This section does not apply to baby-sitting or child day care service furnished in places of worship during religious services or related activities.
9.12.2.
General provisions.
1.
State regulation.
All day care facilities shall comply with all applicable state regulations.
2.
Inspections.
The building official shall have the right to enter and inspect the premises for compliance purposes after advance notice to the property owner.
3.
Hours of outside play shall be limited to between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and sunset, as defined by the National Weather Service, and an outdoor play area shall be, provided for child day care facilities and shall not be located in the front yard.
4.
Sewage facilities.
Day care facilities using, or proposing to use, an on-site sewage disposal system shall obtain a written approval from the county health department.
5.
Fencing shall be, provided to restrict children from hazardous areas, such as open drainage ditches, wells, holes, and adjacent streets.
Natural or physical barriers may be used in place of fencing so long as such barriers functionally restrict children from these areas.
6.
Expansion to day care center.
The care of more than 12 individuals at a time constitutes a day care center, which may require, in the case of expansion of a family day care home, to a district in which day care centers are permitted.
When applying for rezoning, the applicant shall submit a plan showing any existing or proposed outdoor play areas, outdoor play equipment, fencing, access drives, adjacent streets, adjacent hazardous land uses, on-site hazardous areas (as previously defined), on-lot sewage disposal facilities, parking spaces, and the drop-off circulation pattern.
7.
Application and permitting procedure.
Any individual proposing a family day care home shall submit an application for a day care home permit to the building official.
If the application demonstrates compliance with this section, the building official shall grant the permit.
Group day care homes shall only be permitted as special, exception uses in accordance with § 13.6 and the provisions of § 9.12.3, below.
9.12.3.
Family day care homes and group day care homes.
Day care facilities, operated within a residence, are not subject to the requirements for home occupations but shall comply with the general provisions of § 9.12.2 and of this § 9.12.3.
1.
Family day care homes shall:   a.
Only be permitted in single-family detached dwellings.
b.
Have a current state registration certificate (proof of registration renewal must be supplied to the city every two years).
c.  Have no external signage.
d.  Be limited to the care of no more than six children.
e.  Not receive children for care before 7:00 a.m. nor continue care after 7:00 p.m.   2.
Group day care homes shall be limited to no more than 12 individuals receiving care in accordance with applicable state regulations.
9.12.4.
Day care centers.
In addition to the other provisions of this section, day care centers shall comply with the following:   1.
The facility shall have an approved and currently valid state license.
Proof of state annual license renewal must be supplied to the city every year.
2.
A fence with a minimum height of four ft. shall physically contain the children within the outdoor play area.
Natural or physical barriers may be used in place of fencing so long as such barriers functionally contain children.
3.
On corner lots, access shall only be from the street of lesser classification.
4.
Play equipment shall be located at least ten ft. from all lot lines.
5.
All pedestrian pathways shall be adequately lit for safety if utilized during non-daylight hours.
Specific areas for lighting are entranceways, pedestrian access to the outdoor play areas, sidewalks, drop-off areas, and all parking lots.
Such lighting shall not produce objectionable glare on adjacent properties.
ARTICLE 10.
- PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS   Sec.
10.1.
- Off-street parking and loading terms.
10.1.1.
The following off-street parking and loading terms, when used in this article, shall have the meanings defined in this section:   1.
Employee.
The maximum number of persons employed at the facility regardless of the time period during which this occurs or whether the persons are full-time employees.
The major shift may be a particular day of the week or a lunch or dinner period in the case of a restaurant.
2.
Gross leasable area (GLA).
The total floor area for which the tenant pays rent and that is designed for the tenant's occupancy and exclusive use.
GLA does not include public or common areas, such as utility rooms, stairwells and corridors.
3.
Loading area.
That area used to satisfy the requirements of this ordinance for truck loading and unloading.
4.
Loading space.
An off-street space or berth used for the unloading or loading of commercial vehicles.
5.
Occupancy load.
The maximum number of persons, which may be accommodated by the use as determined by its design or by fire code standards.
6.
Parking aisle.
That portion of the parking area consisting of lanes providing access to parking spaces.
7.
Parking area.
An improved area on a lot exclusively used or designed for use as a temporary storage area for motor vehicles, containing access driveways, parking aisles and parking spaces.
8.
Parking space.
That portion of the parking area set aside for the parking of one vehicle.
9.
Stacking space.
An off-street space for the temporary stacking of vehicles with an aisle intended to serve a drive-in teller window, take-out food window, dry cleaning/laundry pick-up or similar type activity station.
Sec.
10.2.
- Required off-street parking spaces.
In all zoning districts there shall be, provided, at the time any permitted use is established, enlarged or increased in capacity, off-street parking spaces in accordance with the requirements set forth in this article pursuant to table 10-1.
For uses not specifically mentioned in the table, parking requirements shall be determined by the zoning official using the most analogous use in the table.
Fractional off-street parking space requirements shall be counted as a whole space if the fraction is greater than one-half.
Off-street parking areas shall not be considered as loading or unloading areas.
No off-street parking facility, in existence at the effective date of these regulations, shall be reduced to less than the amount required for the use involved.
10.2.1.
Site plan review.
All off-street parking areas with six or more parking spaces shall be subject to site plan review by the commission.
10.2.2.
Off-street parking design requirements.
1.
The minimum parking space dimensions shall be as shown in table 10-2 and figure 10.2.2.
2.
In parking areas of 20 or more parking spaces, up to 20 percent of the spaces may be reserved for compact cars.
Such spaces shall contain a minimum rectangular area of eight ft. in width and 16 ft. in length.
These spaces shall be conspicuously marked for compact cars only.
3.
Stacking space shall contain a minimum rectangular area of ten ft. in width and 20 ft. in length and be separate from parking aisles and spaces.
4.
Handicapped parking spaces shall be, provided and designed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the city building code.
5.
All off-street parking areas shall be so designed and be of such size that no vehicle is required to back into a public street for egress, except for lots devoted to single-family and duplex dwellings.
However, backing into arterials shall be prohibited in all cases.
6.
Parking areas for all developments shall be so designed that sanitation, emergency and other public service vehicles can adequately and safely serve such developments without the necessity of backing unreasonable distances or making other dangerous maneuvers.
Fire lanes may be required by the fire code.
7.
All permanent off-street parking areas shall be of a hard surface or in such a manner that no dust will result from continuous use.
All parking areas shall be maintained in good condition, i.e., free of potholes, weeds, trash, refuse, etc.
8.
Parking spaces, except those serving single-family and duplex dwellings, shall be clearly marked and meet all city specifications.
9.
Drainage in parking areas shall direct stormwater back into the site from adjacent properties toward adequate drainage channels.
Drainage plans shall be subject to approval by the City Planner.
10.
The area between the street and an off-street parking lot shall have a curb, or similar barrier, as approved by the zoning official, separating the parking lot from the sidewalk to prevent the encroachment of vehicles onto the sidewalk.
10.2.3.
Location of required parking.
1.
All required parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the use served by the parking, except as, provided below:   a.
Required parking within planned residential developments may be, provided in common parking areas.
b.
If the number of required parking spaces cannot reasonably be, provided on the same lot as the served use, remote parking may be permitted by a special, exception if within 500 ft. of the concerned lot.
Such special, exception requires legal documentation that the applicant has the right to use such remote spaces.
2.
No off-street parking shall extend beyond any lot line, unless approved by the City Planner for common parking areas with cross access between uses on abutting lots.
10.2.4.
Joint and shared parking.
Joint off-street parking facilities for two or more uses may be established so long as the required number of off-street parking spaces shall not be less than the sum of the requirements for the individual uses computed separately.
However, subject to approval by the commission, minimum parking requirements for a mixed-use development may be reduced by calculation of shared parking requirements using the shared parking demand information in table 10-3.
10.2.5.
Parking prohibitions.
1.
The use of off-street parking in any residential district for nonresidential purposes is prohibited.
2.
The use of any required parking space for the storage of any motor vehicle for sale or for any purpose other than parking is prohibited.
Table 10-1.
Required Off-Street Parking Spaces by Use   	Agricultural Uses   	Farm  	1 per 1.05 employees   	Farm Stand  	1 per 250 sf.
of retail floor area   	Farm Support Business  	1 per 1.05 employees, plus 1 per company vehicle   	Stable  	1 per 3 persons of occupancy load plus 1 per 1.05 employees   	Residential Uses   	Accessory Dwelling  	1 per DU   	Boarding House  	1 per BR   	Duplex  	2 per DU   	Independent Living Facility  	2 per 3 DUs plus 1 space per employee   	Manufactured Home  	2 per Manufactured Home   	Multifamily Developments  	1 per studio, efficiency or 1-BR unit; 1.75 per 2-BR unit; 2.0 per 3+ BR unit   	Single-family Dwelling, attached or detached  	2 per DU   	Institutional Uses   	Assisted Living Facility  	1 per 4 residents plus 1 per employee   	Club  	1 per 100 sf.
of non-storage and non-service floor area   	Community Center  	1 per 300 sf.
of GLA   	Country Club  	1 per 3 persons of occupancy load   	Day Care Center  	1 per employee, plus 1 stacking or parking space per 8 persons enrolled of occupancy load   	Group Care Home or Rehabilitation Facility  	1 per 4 beds plus 1 per employee   	Hospital  	1 per 2 patient beds plus 1 per emergency room bed plus 1 per employee   	Library  	1 per 500 sf.
of GLA   	Nursing Care Facility  	1 per 4 beds plus 1 per employee   	Place of Assembly  	1 per 3 seats in the main assembly space   	Public Facility  	1 per 300 sf.
of GLA   	School, Commercial  	1 per 3 students plus 1 per employee   	School, Elementary or Junior High/Middle  	1 per classroom, plus either 1 per employee or 1 per 3 seats in the main assembly space (whichever is greater)   	School, High  	1 per 8 students of occupancy load, plus either 2 spaces per classroom or 1 per 3 seats in the main assembly space (whichever is greater)   	Commercial Uses   	Animal Hospital  	1 per 300 sf.
of GLA   	Appliance Store  	1 per 400 sf.
of GLA   	Art Gallery  	1 per 350 sf.
of GLA   	Automotive Sales  	1 per 200 sf.
of interior sales area plus 1 per 4,000 sf.
of outdoor display area plus 1 stacking space per service bay   	Automotive Parts Store  	1 per 400 sf.
of GLA plus 1 per employee   	Automotive Rental Establishment  	1 per 400 sf.
of GLA plus 1 per rental vehicle   	Automotive Repair, Major and Minor  	1 per employee plus 2 stacking spaces per service bay plus 1 per company vehicle   	Bank (no drive-thru)  	1 per 250 sf.
of GLA   	Bank (drive-thru only)  	1 per 2 employees plus 3 stacking spaces per teller   	Bank (with drive-thru)  	1 per 350 sf.
GLA plus 3 stacking spaces per teller   	Barber or Beauty Shop  	2.5 per chair   	Bed and Breakfast  	1 per guest bedroom plus 2 spaces   	Bowling Alley  	3.5 per bowling lane   	Call Center, Telemarketing Office  	1 per 150 sf.
of GLA or 1 per employee, whichever is greater   	Car Wash (full service or automated)  	1 per employee plus 4 stacking spaces per bay   	Car Wash (self-service)  	3 stacking spaces per approach lane plus 2 drying spaces per stall   	Clinic  	6 per practitioner   	Commercial School  	1 per 3 students of occupancy load plus 1 per employee   	Dry Cleaning Pick-Up  	1 per 300 sf.
of GLA   	Funeral Home  	1 per 1 employee plus 1 per 3 seats of occupancy load plus 1 per company vehicle   	Furniture Store  	1 per 600 sf.
of GLA   	Gas Station/Convenience Store  	1 per 300 sf.
of GLA plus 1 stacking space per fuel island   	General Retail Business  	Under 50,000 sf.
: 1 per 200 sf.
of GLA; 50,000—99,999 sf.
: 1 per 250 sf.
of GLA; 100,000+ sf.
: 1 per 300 sf.
of GLA   	Home Improvement Center  	1 per 400 sf.
of GLA   	Hotel or Motel  	1 per room plus 1 per employee   	Laundromat  	1 per 2 washing machines   	Liquor Lounge (freestanding)  	1 per 100 sf.
of GLA   	Mini-Warehouse  	5 spaces adjacent to leasing office (if any)   	Office, business or professional  	1 per 250 sf.
of GLA   	Movie Theater  	1 per 3 seats   	Open Air Market  	1 per 500 sf.
of display area plus 1 per employee   	Outdoor Recreation   	Golf Course:  	4 per hole   	Miniature Golf:  	2 per tee   	Golf Driving Range:  	1 per tee   	Other:  	1 per 3 persons of occupancy load   	Pool Hall  	1 per table   	Restaurant, Carry-Out and/or Delivery  	1 per employee plus 1 per 300 sf.
of GLA   	Restaurant, Drive-in  	1 per ordering station plus 1 per employee   	Restaurant, Drive-thru  	1 per 100 sf.
of GLA plus 4 stacking spaces per drive-thru window   	Restaurant, Standard  	1 per 3 seats of occupancy load   	Service Station  	2 per service bay plus 1 per company vehicle plus 1 per employee plus 1 stacking space per fuel island   	Industrial Uses   	General Industry and Manufacturing, Research Laboratory and similar uses  	1 per 1 employee plus 1 per company vehicle, but not less than 1 per 1,000 sf.
of GLA   	Warehouse, distribution and wholesale business  	1 per 1 employee plus 1 per company vehicle, but not less than 1 per 500 sf.
of GLA      	Table 10-2.
Parking Lot Dimensional Requirements   	Parking Angle  	Stall Width (A)  	Stall Length (B)  	Stall Depth (C)  	Curb Length (D)  	Aisle Width (E)  	Interlock (F)   	 	 	 	 	 	One-Way  	Two-Way  	  	0°  	8 ft.  	22 ft.  	8 ft.  	22 ft.  	12 ft.  	20 ft.  	na   	30°  	9 ft.  	20 ft.  	17.4 ft.  	17 ft.  	15 ft.  	20 ft.  	3.9 ft.   	45°  	9 ft.  	20 ft.  	20.2 ft.  	12 ft.  	15 ft.  	20 ft.  	3.2 ft.   	60°  	9 ft.  	19 ft.  	21 ft.  	10.4 ft.  	20 ft.  	24 ft.  	2.3 ft.   	90°  	9 ft.  	19 ft.  	19 ft.  	9 ft.  	20 ft.  	24 ft.  	na         	Table 10-3.
Typical Shared Parking Demand by Use and Time of Day   	Parking Demand* by Use  	Weekday 8:00 a.m.—5:00 p.m.
Weekday 6:00 p.m.—12:00 a.m.
Weekday 12:00 a.m.—6:00 a.m.
Weekend 8:00 a.m.—5:00 p.m.
Weekend 6:00 p.m.—12:00 a.m.
Weekend 12:00 a.m.—6:00 a.m.
Residential  	60%  	100%  	100%  	80%  	100%  	100%   	Office  	100%  	20%  	5%  	5%  	5%  	5%   	Commercial  	90%  	80%  	5%  	100%  	70%  	5%   	Lodging  	70%  	100%  	100%  	70%  	100%  	100%   	Restaurant  	70%  	100%  	10%  	70%  	100%  	20%   	Entertainment  	40%  	100%  	10%  	80%  	100%  	50%   	Movie Theater  	40%  	80%  	10%  	80%  	100%  	10%   	Institutional (non-church)  	100%  	20%  	5%  	10%  	10%  	5%   	Institutional (church)  	10%  	5%  	5%  	100%  	50%  	5%       *Different parking demands may be used than the typical shown here if documented in a parking demand study.
Sec.
10.3.
- Off-street loading.
In all zoning districts where permitted uses require the receipt or distribution of material or merchandize by truck or similar vehicle, off-street loading and unloading space shall be, provided.
Such requirements shall apply to new structures or that portion of existing structures that are altered or expanded after the effective date of this ordinance.
10.3.1.
One space shall be required for the first 20,000 sf.
of floor area plus one additional space for each 20,000 sf.
of floor area up to 100,000 sf.
and one space for each additional 40,000 sf.
thereafter.
However, the approving authority may waive loading requirements for uses under 8,000 sf.
10.3.2.
Off-street loading design standards.
1.
The minimum size of a loading space shall be 15 ft. by 50 ft., exclusive of driveway and maneuvering space.
Each space shall allow vertical clearance of 14 ft.   2.
Joint or combined off-street loading space for two or more buildings on the same lot can be, provided as long as the amount of such combined off-street space is equal in size and capacity to the combined requirements of the buildings to be served.
3.
No street or alley shall be considered as part of the off-street loading area.
4.
All loading areas shall be so designed and located to permit traffic to exit facing a street or alley.
Off-street loading spaces may occupy required yard areas, provided that no loading space shall be located within ten ft. of the front lot line nor within five ft. of any side or rear lot line.
5.
No loading space shall be used to meet parking requirements, interfere with the on-site circulation of traffic, nor allow a truck to extend into any right-of-way or over any property line.
Sec.
10.4.
- Driveway spacing.
The following regulations shall govern ingress and egress to all lots:   10.4.1.
Within the first 15 ft. of the lot (measured from the front lot line along which a driveway is proposed) driveways shall not exceed the following widths:   1.
Single-family and duplex dwellings: 13 ft.   2.
Multifamily dwellings: 25 ft. (for two travel lanes).
3.
Nonresidential uses: 30 ft. (for two travel lanes).
10.4.2.
Access points shall be in accordance with table 10-4, driveway spacing, and the following:   1.
Single-family and duplex dwellings with greater lot frontage may only have a second access if approved by the City Planner after a determination that traffic safety and movement at the particular location will not be adversely impacted by the additional access.
2.
Corner lots-of-record may have a driveway with less than the above-required distance from the intersecting street, provided the driveway will be located along the street of lesser classification (as applicable) and as far as practicable from the intersection, and that, in the opinion of the City Planner, the driveway will not adversely affect traffic safety and movement on adjoining streets.
10.4.3.
No two access points on the same lot frontage shall be closer than 50 ft. from their nearest edges.
10.4.4.
The area between the street and a driveway parallel to the street shall have a curb at least six inches in height and six inches in width separating the drive from the sidewalk to prevent encroachment of vehicles onto the sidewalk area.
10.4.5.
No curbs on public streets or rights-of-way shall be cut or altered without written approval of the city.
10.4.6.
Where access to a state or federal highway is controlled by regulations other than those stated herein, those rules and regulations shall prevail.
Table 10-4.
Driveway Spacing Regulations   	 	Minimum Spacing  	Max.
number of driveways per frontage length   	 	From intersections  	From other  driveways  	  	All Uses   	Major Arterial  	250 ft.  	200 ft.  	1 per 200 ft.   	Minor Arterial  	200 ft.  	150 ft.  	1 per 150 ft.
Single-Family and Duplex Dwellings   	Collector  	125 ft.  	25 ft.  	1 per 100 ft.   	Local  	75 ft.  	ten ft.  	1 per 100 ft.   	All Other Uses   	Collector  	150 ft.  	125 ft.  	1 per 125 ft.   	Local  	100 ft.  	75 ft.  	1 per 75 ft.
ARTICLE 11.
- LANDSCAPING, SCREENING AND BUFFERS   The intent of this article is to require a minimum number of trees in residential areas, to establish standards for buffers required between incompatible land uses and to provide for landscaping surrounding and within vehicular areas in high traffic corridors.
For the purposes of this article, [the terms] "fences" and "walls" shall have the same meaning.
Landscaping shall not be planted in a manner or location which causes a hazard to vehicles entering or within the public right-of-way.
Required landscape plans shall include the information listed in appendix 3.
Sec.
11.1.
- Buffers.
Buffers shall be, provided in accord with the requirements of table 11-1 and as described herein.
11.1.1.
Applicability.
except as otherwise, provided herein, buffer requirements shall be based on the developing land use and the existing, abutting use.
11.1.2.
General standards.
To decrease incompatibility between neighboring land uses, the following standards shall apply to all required buffers:   1.
Required yards, where corresponding with the buffer area, may overlap and may be counted toward a buffer width requirement.
2.
The buffer requirement, if any, shall be the responsibility of the developing land use.
3.
Buffer requirements may be modified by the approving authority in certain cases as follows:   a.
If the land use relationships between two abutting lots changes so that a lesser buffer would be required, the width of the previously, provided buffer may be reduced accordingly.
b.
Up to one-half of the width of an abutting alley may be counted toward the buffer width requirement, but the landscaping density requirements shall not be reduced.
c.  Whenever the proposed use abuts vacant land, buffer requirements shall be based on the zoning of the abutting property or the use projected by the comprehensive plan, whichever requires a lesser buffer.
4.
Buffers shall not be used for parking, recreational use or any other purpose, except as, provided herein.
The approving authority may permit a pedestrian access-way through a required buffer where appropriate.
Public utilities and storm drainage facilities may be constructed in a required buffer, provided the buffer is otherwise installed in compliance with the approved landscaping plan.
The city may require supplemental plantings to mitigate the effect of any such land disturbance in the buffer.
Table 11-1.
Buffer Requirements By Use   	Developing Land Use  	Existing Abutting Uses or Zoning   	 	Single-family  	Multifamily  	Lodging  	Institutional  	Business  	Parks & greenways   	 	detached  	attached  	 	 	low/medium/high  	 	  	Residential and Lodging  	Buffer Class Required   	Detached, Single-family  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na   	Attached, Single-family  	A  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na   	Multifamily  	B  	A  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na   	Lodging  	B  	B  	A  	na  	na  	na  	na   	Manufactured home/RV parks  	B  	B  	B  	B  	A  	B  	A Institutional   	Low Intensity  	A  	A  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na   	Medium Intensity  	A  	A  	A  	na  	na  	na  	na  	na  	A   	High Intensity  	B  	B  	B  	A  	A  	na  	na  	na  	A   	Business/Commercial  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Offices up to 50,000 sf.
A  	A  	A  	na  	A  	na  	na  	na  	A   	Offices greater than 50,000 sf.
B  	B  	B  	A  	B  	A  	na  	na  	A   	Amusement, Outdoor Entertainment  	B  	B  	B  	A  	B  	A  	na  	na  	A   	Retail, Shopping Centers, and Restaurants up to 50,000 sf.
B  	B  	A  	A  	A  	A  	na  	na  	A   	Retail, Shopping Centers, and Restaurants Greater than 50,000 sf.
B  	B  	B  	A  	B  	A  	na  	na  	A   	Heavy Commercial, Including Repair, Contractor and Automotive Uses  	B  	B  	B  	A  	B  	A  	na  	na  	A   	Industry  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	  	Warehousing, Storage, Telecommunications Towers and Public Utility Facilities  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	B  	B  	A  	B   	Other Industrial Uses  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	C  	B  	B       	Buffer Class  	Width  	Required trees per 100 linear feet   	 	With fence/wall  	Without fence/wall  	  	A  	10 ft.  	15 ft.  	8   	B  	15 ft.  	20 ft.  	10   	C  	22 ft.  	30 ft.  	12       11.1.3.
Design standards.
1.
Prior to occupancy of the premises, the buffer shall provide a visually impervious barrier from the ground to five ft. above grade level throughout the entire length of the buffer through the use of shrubs and trees.
Fences may also be used in combination with shrubs and trees (see paragraph 3 below).
Within one year after installation, the buffer shall be at least six ft. above grade throughout the entire length of the buffer.
2.
Required plantings shall be evergreen.
3.
The required buffer width may be reduced as, provided in table 11-1 when a fence is, provided that is five to seven ft. tall and that meets the requirements in § 11.4.
With a fence, maximum shrub spacing may be reduced to not more than eight ft.   Sec.
11.2.
- Landscaping for vehicular areas.
11.2.1.
Applicability.
These regulations apply to areas used for off-street parking and loading; vehicular storage, display, maneuvering and washing; and the dispensing of motor fuels.
11.2.2.
A landscaping plan shall be required as part of every development application for new construction, which includes vehicular areas as herein described.
This section shall apply to new vehicular areas for all uses, except single-family dwellings, duplexes and multiplexes.
If the size of an existing, applicable vehicular area is increased by ten percent or ten spaces, whichever is greater, the new vehicular area shall be made to comply with the requirements of this section.
11.2.3.
Requirements.
1.
The primary landscaping materials used in vehicular areas shall be canopy trees.
Shrubs and other planting materials may be used to complement the required trees.
2.
Required plantings shall be set back from the edge of the planted area or as otherwise needed to prevent damage by vehicles.
3.
Interior landscaping.
Each vehicular area shall have interior landscaping covering not less than five percent of the total vehicular area.
4.
Street frontage landscaping.
a.
A landscaped strip at least ten ft. wide shall be located between the vehicular area and the street line.
The width may be reduced to five ft. when a fence, meeting the requirements of § 11.4 and that is between 2.5 to 3.5 ft. tall, is, provided.
b.  Shrubs shall be evergreen and spaced no more than five ft. on center.
If used in combination with a fence meeting the requirements of § 11.4, shrubs, may be deciduous and may be spaced no more than eight ft. on center.
c.  At least one understory tree for every 40 linear ft. or one canopy tree for every 50 ft. of required landscape strip shall be planted.
Only canopy and understory trees, as defined in article 2, shall be counted toward these requirements.
5.
Perimeter landscaping.
A five-foot-wide landscaping strip shall be, provided along the parking lot perimeter and shall be planted with evergreen shrubs and one understory tree per each 40 ft. of frontage (the width of any cross access drives may be discounted).
Where this overlaps or conflicts with other landscaping requirements, the greater requirement shall govern.
Sec.
11.3.
- Screening.
Screening is intended to provide visual separation of certain uses from public areas and adjoining properties.
11.3.1.
Applicability.
For all multifamily, nonresidential and mixed use developments, the following shall require screening:   1.
Garbage collection, recycling and refuse handling areas.
2.
Maintenance areas or utility structures associated with a building or development.
3.
Water meters, gas meters, electric meters and air conditioners/mechanical units.
4.
Loading areas.
5.
Outside runs for veterinary clinics, animal shelters, and kennels.
6.
Outdoor storage of materials, stock, equipment, and vehicles (such as those stored for repair).
7.
Any other uses for which screening may be required by the reviewing authority.
11.3.2.
Design requirements.
The design of screening shall be in accord with the following and as approved by the reviewing authority:   1.
Location on-site should be the first consideration in providing screening.
The reviewing authority may lessen screening requirements when the location of the use to be screened reduces its visibility to the public and neighboring properties.
Uses requiring screening, when collocated, may be screened together.
2.
Screening shall not be placed so as to impede any drainage-way and shall not block access to any aboveground, pad-mounted transformer and shall provide the minimum clear distance required by the utility company.
3.
The method of screening, including height and materials, shall be that which is sufficient to visually screen the use.
The minimum height needed is preferred.
4.
Fences, berms, or landscaping used for other purposes, but that are proposed as part of a required screen and that meet the requirements of this section, may count toward these requirements.
5.
Uses that produce objectionable noise or odors shall be located so as to minimize such impacts to the public and abutting properties.
6.
Shrubs shall be evergreen and spaced no more than five ft. on center.
If used in combination with a fence, shrubs may be deciduous and may be spaced no more than eight ft. on center.
7.
Trees shall be evergreen and, when used in the absence of a fence, shall be used together with shrubs to provide a continuous, opaque screen.
11.3.3.
Requirements for specific uses.
1.
Refuse and recycling containers shall not be located forward of the front building line.
Such containers shall be screened by a combination of opaque fence and plant material on three sides.
Opaque gates shall be installed for access.
The fence shall be at least two ft. taller than the container.
2.
For restaurants, enclosures shall be sized, as needed, to accommodate the storage of grease containers.
3.
Mechanical equipment on roofs or on-site shall be screened so as to not be visible from public streets or adjacent properties.
The screening of building-mounted mechanical equipment shall be an integral component of the building design.
Mechanical equipment installed on-site shall be adequately screened by plant materials and/or fences to blend in with site landscaping.
4.
Outdoor storage, where permitted, shall be screened to a height of six ft. or two ft. taller than the material or equipment to be screened, whichever is greater.
5.
Service areas, loading docks, work yards, and similar uses should be located to minimize their visibility to the public and to any abutting properties to which such functions would be objectionable.
Where their location is insufficient to effectively screen the use, required screening shall be at least six ft. in height.
Sec.
11.4.
- Design standards for fences.
Fences used as a part of any required buffer, screen, or perimeter landscaping shall comply with the following:   11.4.1.
No more than 25 percent of the fence surface shall be left open.
The finished side of the fence shall face abutting property.
11.4.2.
Required shrubs and trees shall be planted on the exterior side of the fence.
The commission shall approve the design of fences to assure their functions, as required by this article, are properly served.
In particular, the commission shall not approve a reduced buffer width pursuant to § 11.1.3.3 without also approving the design of the fence.
Sec.
11.5.
- Modifications.
The planting requirements of this article shall be applied equally to similarly classified and situated properties, but may be modified or waived altogether in certain cases where a building site is subject to any of the following circumstances determined by the commission:   11.5.1.
Existing natural vegetation, which meets, in whole or in part, buffer or screening requirements, may be applied toward the requirements of this article.
Where natural vegetation (trees and/or shrubs) exist on a piece of property, when application is made for a building permit, such natural vegetation shall be left undisturbed until the zoning official has evaluated it for its suitability as a buffer or screen, as applicable.
The zoning official may require that the developer retain such natural vegetation.
However, additional planting may be required to fully achieve the requirement.
11.5.2.
Where impending development of adjacent property would make these standards unreasonable or impractical.
11.5.3.
Where, after inspection by the zoning official, it is found that the view from adjoining properties is blocked by a change in grade or other natural or manmade features.
11.5.4.
Where planting cannot, in the professional opinion of an expert, be expected to thrive due to poor soil conditions, intense shade or similar conditions.
Sec.
11.6.
- Maintenance and irrigation.
11.6.1.
All plant material shall be maintained in a healthy growing condition, replaced when dead and kept free of weeds, refuse and debris.
11.6.2.
All fencing shall be permanently maintained in good condition and, whenever necessary, repaired or replaced by the party required to provide such fence.
11.6.3.
All required landscaping shall be drought-tolerant, native species or shall be irrigated by an automatic irrigation system.
ARTICLE 12.
- ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS   Sec.
12.1.
- Administration.
The provisions of this ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the zoning official, except as herein, provided.
Sec.
12.2.
- Administrator.
The council shall designate a zoning official to administer this ordinance.
In addition, the zoning official and/or building official shall have the right to enter upon any premises during a reasonable period of time for the purpose of making inspections of the buildings or premises necessary to administer and enforce this ordinance.
Sec.
12.3.
- Building permit required.
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the construction of any building or other structure, including accessory structures, or to store building materials or erect temporary field offices, or to commence the moving, alteration, or repairs (except repairs not changing the character of the structure and not exceeding $1,000.00 in cost, or painting or wallpapering) of any structure, including accessory structures, until the building official has issued for such work a building permit including confirmation by the zoning official that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure in all respects conform with the provisions of this ordinance., except on the written order of the board, no building permit shall be issued for any building where the construction, addition, alteration or use thereof would be in violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance.
Application for a building permit shall be made to the building official on forms, provided for that purpose.
Sec.
12.4.
- Application requirements.
It shall be unlawful for the building official to approve any plans or issue a building permit for any excavation or construction until such plans have been inspected in detail and have been found to be in conformity with this ordinance.
To this end, the building official shall require that every application for a building permit for excavation, construction, use of land, moving or alteration be accompanied by a plan or plat, drawn to an appropriate scale, including those materials listed in appendix 4.
If the proposed excavation, construction, moving, or alteration, as set forth in the application are in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, the building official shall issue a building permit accordingly.
If an application for a building permit is not approved, the building official shall state in writing on the application the cause for such disapproval.
Issuance of a building permit shall in no case be construed as waiving any provision of this ordinance.
Sec.
12.5.
- Voiding of building permit.
Any building permit granted under this section shall become null and void on one year from the date of issuance of the permit.
Exceptions may be made if the proposed development or construction has passed the first building inspection.
The building official shall make every reasonable effort to notify a holder of a building permit, which is liable for voiding action before voidance is actually declared.
Sec.
12.6.
- Inspection.
The construction or usage affected by any building permit shall be subject to four inspections: the first, when the foundation has been excavated; the second, when the foundation has been completed and the building lines have been established; the third, when all electrical and mechanical elements are in place; and the fourth, when the building or structure has been completed.
It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit to properly notify the building official as to the time when the construction will be ready for inspection.
Failure to make proper notification of the time for such inspection shall automatically cancel the permit, requiring the issuance of a new permit before construction may proceed or occupancy may be permitted.
Sec.
12.7.
- Certificate of occupancy.
No land or building or other structure or part thereof hereafter erected, moved, or altered in its use shall be used until the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy stating that such land or structure or part thereof is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
Within three days after the owner or his agent has been properly notified [by] the building official that a building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the building official to make a final inspection thereof, and to issue a certificate of occupancy if the building or premises or part thereof is found to conform with the provisions of this ordinance, or if such certificate is refused, to state the refusal in writing with the cause.
Sec.
12.8.
- Unlawful structure.
Any uses of land or dwellings or construction or alteration of buildings or structures erected, altered, razed or converted in violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.
The zoning official is hereby authorized to apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to abate the nuisance created by such unlawful use of a structure, land or building.
Whenever the zoning official has declared a structure to be in violation of any applicable provisions of this ordinance, the owner or occupant shall, within 72 hours from receipt of notification from the zoning official to vacate such premises, accomplish such vacation of said structure or premises until such structure or premises has been made to conform to the provisions of this ordinance.
Such notification shall be:   12.8.1.
By delivery to the owner personally, or by leaving notice at the owner's residence with a person of suitable age and discretion; or   12.8.2.
By depositing the notice as first class certified mail; or   12.8.3.
By posting and keeping posted for 72 hours a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the premises to be repaired.
Sec.
12.9.
- Penalties and remedies of violations.
Any person, firm, corporation, or other organization which violates any provisions of this ordinance shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00 plus court costs for each offense.
Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
The conviction of a violation and imposition of any fine shall not constitute an exemption from compliance with the provisions of this ordinance.
In case any building or other structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this ordinance, the building official, zoning official or any other appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner, who would be especially damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may seek an injunction or writ of mandamus or take other appropriate action or proceedings to stay or prevent occupancy of such building, structure or land.
Sec.
12.10.
- Amendment.
12.10.1.
Zoning amendment petition.
The council may amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal the regulations, restrictions, boundaries of districts or any provisions of this ordinance.
Any member of the council may introduce such amendment; or any official, board, commission or any other person may present an application to the council requesting an amendment to this ordinance.
12.10.2.
Commission review.
No such amendment shall become effective unless such be first submitted to the commission for its approval, disapproval, or recommendation.
If the commission disapproves an amendment after such submittal, it shall require the favorable vote of the majority of the council to become effective.
Within 30 days of the public hearing on the application, unless an extension of time is agreed to by the applicant, the commission shall issue a recommendation to the council.
Failure of the commission to act within this time period shall constitute a positive recommendation.
The commission upon its own initiative may hold public hearings, public notice of which shall be given, for the consideration of any proposed amendment to the provisions of the ordinance, or to the official zoning map, and then report its approval, disapproval, or recommendations to the council.
12.10.3.
Public hearing on proposed amendments.
Upon the introduction of any amendment to this ordinance or upon the receipt of a petition to amend this ordinance, the council shall publish notice of such request for an amendment, together with a notice of the time and place set for public hearing by the council on the requested change.
Said notice shall be published in full, for one insertion, in a newspaper of general circulation.
One week after the first insertion, the council shall publish a synopsis of the proposed amendment.
Both insertions must be published at least 15 days in advance of passage of the amendment.
After the amendment is adopted, it shall be published in the same manner as all municipal ordinances pursuant to section 11-45-8 of the Code of Alabama, 1975, [Code of Ala. 1975, § 11-45-8] as amended.
Within 30 days of the public hearing on the application, unless an extension of time is agreed to by the applicant, the council shall approve the request, approve it with conditions or deny the request.
Failure of the council to act within this time period shall constitute approval.
12.10.4.
Time limit.
After the council has voted on an application for rezoning or other amendment of the zoning ordinance, another application for rezoning of the same tract or parcel of land, or change of the same portion of the zoning ordinance will not be considered for a period of one year from the date of such action, provided, however, that the council may adjust this time period if, in the opinion of a majority of the council, an unusual situation or circumstance exists.
Sec.
12.11.
- Conditional use procedures.
Conditional uses are those that have some special effect, which differs from the potential impacts of permitted or special, exception uses or exceeds them in intensity, or have uniqueness such that their effect upon the surrounding environment cannot be determined in advance of a use being proposed in a particular location.
As such, conditional uses must be reviewed in terms of existing zoning and land use in the vicinity of the proposed use; whether, and to what extent the use at the proposed location is consistent with the comprehensive plan, the intent of this ordinance, and any other development policies and/or regulations of the city; and whether and to what extent all steps possible have been taken by the developer to minimize any adverse effects of the proposed use on the immediate vicinity and on the public health, welfare and safety in general.
12.11.1.
All conditional uses require the submission of an application to the commission.
Such application shall be filed with the zoning official by the property owner or designee at least 30 days prior to the date on which the application is to be heard, and shall include a site plan including those materials listed in the appendix.
At least 15 days prior to the hearing, the zoning official shall give written notice to all adjoining property owners.
Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to such property owners at their addresses submitted with the request.
Such addresses shall be obtained by the applicant from the most recent records of the county tax assessor and submitted as part of the application.
12.11.2.
The commission shall review the proposed conditional use for compliance with this ordinance and other applicable codes and ordinances, and for compatibility with the purposes of the applicable district.
In particular the commission shall determine that satisfactory provisions have been made concerning the following:   1.
Access to and from the property and the proposed structure and/or uses, with particular attention to vehicular and pedestrian safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and emergency access.
2.
The location and accessibility of off-street parking and loading areas.
3.
The location and accessibility of refuse and service areas and their potentially adverse effects upon surrounding properties.
4.
The screening and buffering of potentially adverse views and activities from surrounding properties.
5.
Control of noise, glare, odor, surface water runoff, and other potentially disturbing impacts upon surrounding properties.
6.
The availability, location, and capacity of utilities.
7.
The location and scale of signs and lighting with particular reference to traffic safety, glare, and visual compatibility with surrounding properties.
8.
The bulk, density, and lot coverage of structures, and yards and open areas, with reference to their compatibility with the character of the surrounding area.
12.11.3.
The commission may impose such conditions as it deems necessary in the particular case to protect the public interest and further the purposes of this ordinance, in relation both to the items listed above and to any other factor it deems relevant.
Such approval and conditions shall be granted to the property, structure, and/or use for which conditional use is approved and not to a particular person.
Violations of conditions attached to any conditional use shall be deemed to be violations of this ordinance.
12.11.4.
Within 60 days of the public hearing on the conditional use application, unless an extension of time is agreed to by the applicant, the commission shall approve the application for a conditional use, approve it with conditions, or deny it.
The failure of the commission to act within this time period shall constitute approval of the conditional use.
Sec.
12.12.
- Fees.
Every applicant or petitioner seeking an amendment to the zoning ordinance or official zoning map, other than amendments initiated by the city, or seeking approval of a building permit, conditional use, variance or special, exception shall pay to the city clerk at the time of filing of petition or application, a fee as set from time to time by the council to cover the cost of technical study, investigation and publication necessary in connection with such application.
No such application shall be filed for consideration until such fee has been paid.
ARTICLE 13.
- BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT   Sec.
13.1.
- Appointments, duties and responsibilities.
A board of zoning adjustment, hereinafter referred to as "the board," is hereby established.
The appointment, procedure, powers and action of said board shall be governed by section 11-52-80 and section 11-52-81, Code of Alabama 1975, as amended [Code of Ala. 1975, §§ 11-52-80 and 11-52-81].
All members of the board shall be citizens and residents of the city.
Sec.
13.2.
- Meetings, procedures and records.
Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman at such times and places as the board may determine.
All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
The board shall adopt and publish its own rules of procedure and keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact; and shall keep records of its examinations and of other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
Sec.
13.3.
- Powers and duties.
The board, in appropriate cases and subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards, shall have the following powers:   13.3.1.
Interpretation of boundaries.
To hear and decide upon interpretation of the boundaries of districts established and shown on the map in accord with criteria specified in § 3.2.
13.3.2.
Appeals.
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by a city official, other than the city council, acting under the authority of this ordinance.
13.3.3.
Variances.
To hear and decide requests for a variance from the provisions of this ordinance where owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of such provisions would result in unnecessary hardship as defined in this article, but where the spirit of the ordinance can be observed and substantial justice done.
13.3.4.
Special, exceptions.
To hear and decide special, exceptions, as specified in this ordinance, upon which the board is required to act.
Sec.
13.4.
- Administrative appeals.
13.4.1.
Appeals to the board may be taken by any person aggrieved or affected by any provision of the ordinance or by any decision of the zoning official relating to this ordinance.
Any such appeal shall be filed with the zoning official within 15 days of the date of the action being appealed.
The zoning official shall forthwith transmit to the board papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
13.4.2.
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the zoning official certifies to the board after the notice of the appeal has been filed that by reason of facts cited in such certification a stay would, in the zoning official's opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the board or by a court of record.
13.4.3.
All appeals shall be filed in writing on forms, provided by the board and made available by the zoning official.
At least 15 days prior to the scheduled board hearing the zoning official shall give written notice to all adjacent property owners.
Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to such property owners at their addresses submitted with the appeal.
The notice shall state the name of the appellant, the location of the property, the decision of the zoning official being appealed, and the time, date, and location of the board hearing.
13.4.4.
The board may affirm, reverse wholly or in part, or modify the zoning official's decision, order, or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be done, and, to that end, shall have all the powers of the zoning official.
Sec.
13.5.
- Variances.
Any property owner may file an application for a variance from the requirements of this ordinance where it is claimed that, by reason of, exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape or by reason of, exceptional topographic conditions, or other extraordinary and, exceptional conditions of such piece of property existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, the strict application and literal enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance would result in peculiar, exceptional and unnecessary hardship upon such owner.
13.5.1.
It is the intent of this ordinance that variances be used only to overcome some physical condition of a parcel of land, which poses a practical difficulty to its development and prevents its owner from using the property in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance.
Any variance granted shall be the minimum adjustment necessary for the reasonable use of the land.
13.5.2.
Applications shall be filed with the zoning official at least 30 days before the scheduled hearing date before the board.
The property owner shall file the application on a form made available by the city.
At least 15 days prior to the scheduled hearing, the zoning official shall give written notice to all adjacent property owners.
Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to such property owners at their addresses as submitted with the application.
Such notice shall state the name of the applicant, the location of the property, the nature of the variance requested and the applicable sections of this ordinance, and the time, date, and location of the hearing.
13.5.3.
The applicant must prove that the variance will not be contrary to the public interest and that practical difficulty and unnecessary hardship will result if it is not granted.
In particular, the applicant shall establish and substantiate that the variance, if granted, will conform to all of the following:   1.
The variance will not permit the establishment of a use not otherwise permitted in the district.
2.
There must be proof of unique and special circumstances and conditions, fully described in the application, applicable to the land or building for which the variance is sought, which are peculiar to such land or buildings and do not apply generally to land or buildings in the vicinity, and which circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application of the provisions of this ordinance would deprive the applicant of reasonable use of such land or buildings.
3.
There must be proof of unnecessary hardship.
It must result from the application of this ordinance and must be suffered directly by the property in question, and evidence of other variances granted under similar circumstances shall not be considered.
It is not sufficient proof of hardship to show that greater value or profit would result if the variance were granted.
Furthermore, the hardship claimed cannot be self-created; nor can it be established on this basis by one who purchases the property with or without knowledge of the restrictions.
4.
The variance will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, substantially increase congestion in the public streets, endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values within the adjacent neighborhood.
5.
The variance will not confer upon the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this ordinance to other land or structures in the same district.
6.
The variance is necessary for the reasonable use of the land or building, and the variance is the minimum variance that will accomplish this purpose.
7.
The variance shall be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the regulations imposed by this ordinance on the applicable district, and shall not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
13.5.4.
The board may prescribe any safeguards or conditions that it deems necessary to secure substantially the objectives of the regulations or provisions of this ordinance to which the variance applies.
Sec.
13.6.
- Special, exceptions.
13.6.1.
All uses permitted by special, exception shall require the submission of an application to the board.
Such application shall be filed with the zoning official at least 30 days before the hearing, and shall include a site plan including those materials listed in the appendix.
The application shall be filed by the property owner or authorized agent on a form made available by the zoning official.
At least 15 days prior to the scheduled hearing, the zoning official shall give written notice to all adjacent property owners.
Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to such property owners at their addresses as submitted with the application.
Such notice shall state the name of the applicant, the location of the property, the proposed use, and the time, date and location of the board hearing.
13.6.2.
The board shall review the application for compliance with this ordinance and all other applicable codes and ordinances of the city.
In particular, the board shall determine that satisfactory provisions have been made concerning the following, among other considerations of this ordinance:   1.
Access to and from the property and the proposed structure and/or uses, with particular attention to vehicular and pedestrian safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and emergency access.
2.
The location and accessibility of off-street parking and loading areas.
3.
The location and accessibility of refuse and service areas and their potentially adverse effects upon surrounding properties.
4.
The screening and buffering of potentially adverse views and activities from surrounding properties.
5.
Control of noise, glare, odor, stormwater runoff, and other potentially disturbing impacts upon surrounding properties.
6.
The availability, location, and capacity of utilities.
7.
The location and scale of signs and lighting with particular reference to traffic safety, glare, and visual compatibility with surrounding properties.
8.
The bulk, density, and lot coverage of structures, and yards and open areas, with reference to their compatibility with the character of the surrounding area.
13.6.3.
The board may impose such conditions that it deems necessary in the particular case to protect the public interest, and the intent of the comprehensive plan, and this ordinance regarding the items listed above and as may otherwise be reasonably necessary.
Such conditions shall apply to the land, structure, and use for which the special, exception is granted and not to a particular person.
Violations of conditions lawfully attached to any special, exception shall be deemed to be violations of this ordinance.
13.6.4.
The board may also grant special, exceptions for business use of a manufactured home in a nonresidential district upon showing of catastrophic circumstances created by [an] act of God or casualty damage.
Such special, exceptions will be valid for a period not exceeding one year and are not transferable.
Such special, exception may be granted only if all of the following conditions are met:   1.
At the termination of the granted period, the property owner must either remove the manufactured home from this location, or apply for another special, exception.
2.
Such special, exceptions are not transferable.
If there is a change of land ownership, the new property owner must apply for a new special, exception if desired.
Sec.
13.7.
- Abatement of nuisance.
The board may require the conduct of any use, conforming or nonconforming, which results in unreasonable noise, smoke, vibration, fumes, dust, dire, radio interference, or explosion hazard or nuisance to surrounding property to be modified or changed to abate such hazard to health, comfort and convenience.
The board may direct the building official to issue an abatement order, but such order may be directed only after a public hearing by the said board, notice of which shall be sent by registered mail to the owners and/or operators of the property on which the use is conducted in addition to due notice of advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation.
A hearing to consider issuance of an abatement order shall be held by the board either upon petition signed by any person affected by the hazard or nuisance or upon the initiative of the board.
An abatement order shall be directed by the board of [zoning adjustment] only upon reasonable evidence of hazard or nuisance, and such order shall specify the date by which the hazard or nuisance shall be abated.
Sec.
13.8.
- Rehearings.
13.8.1.
All decisions rendered by the board shall be final and binding upon all parties.
No appeal of an administrative decision, or decision on a request for a variance or a special, exception shall be reheard, and no further application shall be accepted once a decision has been rendered, except under one or more of the following conditions:   1.
New evidence or information pertinent to the request has been discovered, which was not available to the applicant at the time of the original hearing.
2.
The decision resulted from an error in procedures required by this ordinance or state law and made by the board, the zoning official, or any other city officials.
3.
The decision resulted from an error in substantive law under the provisions of this ordinance or the Code of Alabama, 1975, as amended.
13.8.2.
Where no error is alleged and no new evidence is available, a new presentation by the applicant shall not constitute grounds for rehearing.
Any applicant wishing a rehearing shall appear before the board to present one or more of the qualifying conditions listed in this section.
13.8.3.
If the board finds that one or more of the qualifying conditions exist, the applicant may submit a new application.
This new application shall be heard at a subsequent board meeting, subject to all regular posting and procedural requirements.
Allowing a new application does not obligate the board to grant the request.
Sec.
13.9.
- Appeals from action of the board.
Any party aggrieved by any final judgment or decision of the board may, within 15 days thereafter, appeal therefrom to the circuit court or court of like jurisdiction by filing with the board a written notice of appeal specifying the judgment or decision from which the appeal is taken.
In case of such appeal, the board shall cause a transcript of the proceedings in the case to be certified to the court to which the appeal is taken, and the cause in such court shall be tried de novo.
APPENDIX   APPENDIX 1.
- SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDITIONAL AND SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES   1.
One or more scaled drawings or maps (one inch equals 20 feet unless size dictates a more appropriate scale), clearly showing the following:   2.
Vicinity map, north arrow, scale, accurate shape proportion and dimensions of the site, name of property owner, developer and person drawing map.
3.
Existing and proposed topography of the site and the surrounding area [at] at least two-foot contour intervals showing the location of existing woodlands, streams, and other significant features of the land.
4.
Location and dimensions of existing and proposed buildings, structures, curb cuts, driveways, off-street parking and loading areas, signs, walls, fences, screen planting, landscaping, pedestrian walks, open space, and recreational areas for use by employees, residents, tenants or the general public.
5.
Proposed storm drainage plan.
6.
Proposed traffic circulation system where any part of the land is to be used by motor vehicles.
7.
Proposed dedication of land for public use, including streets, easements, park and school sites.
8.
The location of all existing and proposed power lines, gas lines, sewer and water lines, and the location of any easements to be granted for these utilities.
9.
Drawings showing the proposed appearance of the buildings, structures and grounds after the completion of all buildings and structures and the establishment of the uses proposed on the land.
10.
A statement of the area of land involved in the site, the number of acres and percentage designated for each proposed land use including public facilities, the percentage of the site proposed to be covered by buildings, the total number of dwelling units proposed, the number of dwelling units proposed per acre, the area proposed to be devoted to open space, the area proposed to be paved for parking, driveways, loading space, sidewalks, the total number of parking spaces for the use proposed, the number of employees, excepted per shift, the total floor area of proposed commercial uses (or seating capacity for places of assembly, restaurants, indoor entertainment uses, etc.)
and the proposed manner of illumination of signs.
11.
Restrictions on the use of property including proposed restrictive covenants.
12.
Plans for the protection of abutting properties.
13.
Written request for, exceptions to or variations from the requirements of the zoning ordinance, if any are being requested.
14.
A statement defining the manner in which the city is to be assured that all improvements and protection devices, such as buffers, fences, etc., are to be installed and maintained.
15.
Such other additional information as may be reasonably required by the commission to accomplish the purpose of the site plan review function.
APPENDIX 2.
- MASTER PLAN REQUIREMENTS FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS   1.
The outer boundary of the total development site, including a valid legal description;   2.
A topographic map showing contours at five-foot or smaller intervals as required by the zoning official;   3.
Description of the existing land uses and development adjoining the project site;   4.
The rights-of-way and cross sections of all proposed streets, and proposed access to the surrounding public street system;   5.
The type, number, and location of all structures;   6.
The location, extent, and approximate acreage of all resources protection, recreation, and open spaces;   7.
The location and nature of all common amenities such as clubhouses, swimming pools, laundries, etc.
8.
A conceptual stormwater management plan identifying the proposed patterns of major stormwater runoff, and any proposed stormwater best management practices;   9.
A written report, illustrated as appropriate, shall accompany the master plan addressing the following:   a.
A general description of the proposal;   b.
The proposed standards for the development of the project, including density standards, yard requirements, lot sizes, and restrictive covenants;   c.  A plan for the provision of utilities and storm drainage facilities;   d.  Plans for parking, loading, access, signage, and means of protecting adjacent areas from any potential adverse impacts; and   e.  Presentation of the method for dedicating or reserving land or facilities for public use or for ownership and maintenance of common open spaces.
APPENDIX 3.
- LANDSCAPE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS   The landscape plan shall be drawn to a scale no larger than one inch equals 50 feet and shall contain the following information:   1.
The location and dimension of all areas proposed for landscaping and planting, including a description of the proposed plant materials.
2.
All dimensions and distances, property lines, easements, rights-of-way and buffers.
3.
Existing and proposed buildings and structures, including signs, garbage containers, utility and drainage structures.
4.
Existing buildings and structures on abutting property adjacent to any required screening or buffers.
5.
Bodies of water including detention and retention areas.
6.
Driveways, vehicular areas, existing and proposed parking spaces, access aisles and other vehicular areas.
7.
Sufficient information and detail to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this section.
APPENDIX 4.
- BUILDING PERMIT SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS   1.
The location, slope, area and dimensions of the lot.
2.
The location, dimensions, height and bulk of the structure to be erected, altered, or moved and any building or structures already on the lot.
3.
The existing and intended use of all such buildings or other structures.
4.
The proposed number of dwelling units, occupants, employees, or other similar users.
5.
The setback, side yards, open spaces, parking spaces and other such requirements of the application zoning district.
6.
Any other information deemed necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of this ordinance.
APPENDIX 5.
- LIGHTING PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS   The lighting plan shall be drawn to a scale no larger than one inch equals 50 feet and shall contain the following information:   1.
The type of lamp to be used in each fixture, including the manufacturer's name and part number, lamp wattage, lumen output, and a copy of the manufacturer's lamp specifications;   2.
Fixture heights measured from grade and locations of the same;   3.
The type of fixtures, including the manufacturer's name and model number; wattage; a picture of the fixture; and the IES file name;   4.
Point-to-point photometric calculations at intervals of not more than ten ft. at ground level demonstrating that the plan will provide a uniform intensity of lighting on vehicular surfaces;   5.
The area of each photometric calculation, including an extra calculation to identify the light level produced at the property line, and all data used in each calculation; and   6.
The seal of the qualified Alabama-registered design professional.
Appendix C - SUBDIVISION AND SITE PLAN REGULATIONS[1]   Footnotes:   --- (1) ---   ARTICLE 1.
- GENERAL PROVISIONS   Sec.
1.1.
- Short title.
This document shall be known and may be cited as: The subdivision and site plan regulations of the City of Opp, Alabama.
Sec.
1.2.
- Purpose and authority.
1.2.1.
The purpose of this document is to protect the public health, safety and general welfare by establishing a process and standards for the development of sites and the subdivision of land within the subdivision jurisdiction of the city.
1.2.2.
The provisions in these regulations shall be administered to ensure orderly growth and development without danger to health, or peril from fire, flood, erosion, excessive noise, air pollution, or any other menace, and facilitate the provisions in the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance.
1.2.3.
This regulation is adopted pursuant to the authority of title 11, chapter 52, article 2, sections 30-54 inclusive of the Code of Alabama 1975 [Code of Ala. 1975, §§ 11-52-30—11-52-54] and its amendments, which sections are hereby made a part of these regulations, the Opp planning commission, at its regular meeting on April 3, 2012, adopted by resolution the following regulations, a copy of which has been certified to the Probate Judge of Covington County.
These regulations shall apply only to subdivisions as defined in title 11, chapter 52, article 1 of the Code of Alabama 1975 [Code of Ala. 1975, § 11-52-1 et seq.]
as amended.
Sec.
1.3.
- Jurisdiction.
From and after the date of adoption, these regulations shall govern all subdivisions of land within the boundary of the city; provided, however, that where the city is authorized to exercise subdivision control outside its municipal boundaries, such areas shall be included in the jurisdiction of these regulations.
The site plan review and approval requirements in these regulations shall apply to all multifamily and nonresidential developments proposed within the city regardless of whether the development involves any subdivision of land or not.
1.3.1.
Any owner of land within the limits of said subdivision jurisdiction wishing to subdivide land shall submit to the commission a plat of the proposed subdivision, which shall conform to the minimum requirements set forth in article 3, procedure.
1.3.2.
No plat or part thereof shall be filed or recorded in the office of the probate judge, and no subdivider may proceed with the sale of lots in a subdivision until such subdivision plat shall have been approved by the commission and such approval entered in writing on the plat by the chairman of the commission (see article 3, procedure).
1.3.3.
No public officer, authority or county governing body shall accept, layout, open, improve, grade, pave or light any street, lay or authorize the laying of water or sewer mains or lines, or the construction of other facilities or utilities in any street within the city unless such street shall have been accepted, opened, or otherwise received the legal status of a public street prior to the adoption of these regulations, or unless such street corresponds in its location and lines to a street shown on a subdivision plat approved by the commission, or on a street plan adopted by the commission.
1.3.4.
No building permit shall be issued and no building shall be erected on any lot in a subdivision unless a final plat of such subdivision has been approved and recorded as required by these regulations and unless the property fronts on a public street.
1.3.5.
No grading, excavation, or other disturbance of land; and no construction of any public or private improvements for the purpose of constructing a subdivision shall take place or be commenced except in conformity with these regulations.
1.3.6.
Any building or structure erected or to be erected in violation of this section shall be deemed an unlawful building or structure, and the building inspector, city clerk, subdivision official, city attorney or other official designated by the city may bring action to enjoin such erection or cause it to be vacated or removed.
Sec.
1.4.
- Interpretation, conflict and separability.
1.4.1.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these regulations shall be held to be minimum requirements.
More stringent provisions may be required if it is demonstrated that different standards are necessary to promote the public health, safety, and welfare.
1.4.2.
Where any provision of these regulations is in conflict with another provision, regulation or law, the regulations that are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall prevail.
1.4.3.
The provisions of these regulations are separable.
If a section, sentence, clause, or phrase of these regulations is adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the remaining portions of these regulations.
ARTICLE 2.
- DEFINITIONS   Sec.
2.1.
- General.
2.1.1.
Certain terms used in these regulations shall have the meanings provided herein.
Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning provided in the zoning ordinance, the City Code, or sections 11-52-30 through 11-52-36 of the 1975 Code of Alabama [Code of Ala. 1975, §§ 11-52-30—11-52-36].
Otherwise, they shall have the customary dictionary meaning.
Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other tenses and derivative forms.
The singular number includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, association, organization, trust or partnership.
The word "lot" includes "plot" or "parcel."
The word "building" includes "structure."
The word "shall" is mandatory.
The word "may" is permissive.
2.1.2.
Interpretation.
The subdivision official is hereby authorized to make a final determination of any term used in these regulations.
In case of a dispute over such interpretation, a written appeal of the subdivision official's determination may be filed with the commission.
Such appeal must be filed within 15 days of such determination.
2.1.3.
In case of any conflict between the text of these regulations and any caption, illustration, figure, or other graphic material, the text shall govern.
Sec.
2.2.
- Specific definitions.
2.2.1.
Access management: The preservation of level of service, road capacity and safety on public streets through the regulation of intersections and driveways along such streets.
2.2.2.
Aisle: The traveled way by which cars enter and depart parking spaces.
2.2.3.
ALDOT standard specifications: The Standard Specifications for Highway Construction of the Alabama Department of Transportation, as amended.
2.2.4.
Alley: A public way providing access to the side or rear of properties.
2.2.5.
Applicant: A property owner, including his or her heirs, successors and assignees, or developer authorized to represent a property submitting an application for site plan approval, subdivision, re-subdivision or development.
2.2.6.
Application: The documents required when seeking approval of a subdivision plat.
A complete application includes all information and materials required by these regulations.
2.2.7.
Approving authority: The commission unless a different agency is designated by the city council by ordinance.
2.2.8.
Bicycle path: A pathway usually separated from the roadway designed specifically to satisfy the physical requirements of bicycling in accordance with AASHTO standards.
2.2.9.
Bike lane: An on-street lane designed and intended for use by bicyclists   2.2.10.
Bioswale: A constructed watercourse shaped or graded in earthen materials and stabilized with specific types of vegetation for the conveyance and filtering of storm runoff.
2.2.11.
Block: A tract or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets other than alleys or a combination of streets, public land, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bodies of water or watercourses, or any other barrier to the continuity of development.
2.2.12.
City: The incorporated community of Opp, Alabama.
2.2.13.
City clerk: The duly designated clerk of the City of Opp, Alabama.
2.2.14.
City council: The city council of the City of Opp, Alabama.
2.2.15.
City specifications: All engineering and construction specifications for public improvements, which have been adopted by the city council, the planning commission, applicable city departments, and utility boards.
2.2.16.
Comprehensive plan: The official public document prepared in accordance with § 11-52-8 of the Code of Alabama 1975, as amended [Code of Ala. 1975, § 11-52-8], consisting of maps, charts, and textual material, that constitutes a policy guide to decisions about future development and conservation within the city.
2.2.17.
Cross access: A driveway providing access between two or more abutting lots so that a driver need not enter the public street to access one of said sites from another.
In contrast to an alley, cross access is generally privately owned and maintained.
2.2.18.
Cul-de-sac: A local street with only one outlet and having a vehicular turnaround at the closed end.
2.2.19.
Culvert: A structure designed to convey water under a structure, street, driveway or walkway.
2.2.20.
Curb: A vertical or sloping edge of a roadway intended to prevent encroachments and used in conjunction with gutters to aid in directing the flow of stormwater.
2.2.21.
Dedication: The act of transmitting property or interest thereto.
2.2.22.
Detention basin or detention pond: A basin designed to drain completely after retarding stormwater runoff by temporarily storing the runoff and releasing it at a predetermined rate.
2.2.23.
Drainage easement: A right granted by a landowner to a grantee, allowing the use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
2.2.24.
Drainage facilities: Structural and nonstructural elements designed to collect stormwater runoff and convey it away from structures and through the street right-of-way or off-street drainageways in a manner which adequately drains sites and streets and minimizes the potential for flooding and erosion.
2.2.25.
Driveway: A means of access between a street and a property or between two adjacent properties.
2.2.26.
Easement: Authorization by a property owner of the use by another and for a specified purpose of any designated part of that owner's property.
These regulations recognize only those easements created through valid legal instruments and recorded in the office of the probate judge and those established by the city through continuous and historic use.
2.2.27.
Engineer or registered engineer: A professional engineer registered and in good standing with the State of Alabama Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Surveyors.
1.
Project engineer: That engineer retained by the applicant.
2.2.28.
Engineering plan: Plans prepared by the project engineer showing details of the design and construction of required improvements in a proposed subdivision or site plan.
2.2.29.
Final plat approval: The official action taken by the commission on a preliminarily approved subdivision, after all conditions, engineering plans, and other requirements have been completed or fulfilled and the required improvements have been installed, or guarantees properly posted for the completion, or approval conditioned upon the posting of such guarantee.
2.2.30.
Final plat: The final map or plan or record of all or a portion of a subdivision, and any accompanying materials, which is presented for final plat approval as required in these regulations.
2.2.31.
Floodplain: Any land area susceptible to inundation by water from any source including, at a minimum, that area subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
2.2.32.
Frontage road: See "Street, frontage road."
2.2.33.
Grade: The slope of land or a built feature such as a street, specified in percentage terms.
2.2.34.
Grading plan: A topographic map of a planned subdivision, prepared by a registered engineer, with sufficient perimeter area to provide a clear definition of the initial elevations, watercourses, vegetative cover and drainage patterns and which is sufficient in detail and scale to determine limits and depths of excavations, fills and removal of native vegetation.
2.2.35.
Gutter: A shallow channel usually set along a curb or the pavement edge of a street for the purpose of catching and carrying off stormwater.
2.2.36.
Half street: A street parallel and contiguous to a property line and of lesser right-of-way width than is required by these regulations.
2.2.37.
Hardship: An unusual situation on a property, which prevents the full utilization of the property as enjoyed by others within the city.
A hardship exists only when it is not self-created, or when it is not economic in nature.
2.2.38.
Health department: The Covington County and/or state health department.
2.2.39.
Improvement bond: Financial security filed by the applicant with the city to ensure the construction of all required improvements at a specified time in the future.
2.2.40.
Improvements: Those physical additions and changes to the land that may be necessary to produce usable and desirable development, including, but not limited to, driveways, landscaping, streets, sidewalks, and stormwater management and sewer facilities.
2.2.41.
Lot: A parcel of land in one ownership, used or set aside and available for use as the site of one or more buildings and accessory structures or for any other permitted purpose..   2.2.42.
Maintenance bond: Financial security filed by the applicant with the city to secure the functionality and structural integrity of all required improvements for a specified period of time.
2.2.43.
Major subdivision: A subdivision other than a minor subdivision.
2.2.44.
Master development plan: A plan for a development within a P-1, P-2 or planned industrial district that has been approved by the council.
2.2.45.
Median: That portion of a divided street separating lanes of traffic according to direction of travel.
2.2.46.
Minor subdivision: A subdivision requiring no street improvements, utilities extensions or other public improvements and as otherwise described in § 3.3, minor subdivisions, procedure.
2.2.47.
Monument: Any permanent object serving to indicate a limit or to mark a boundary.
2.2.48.
Passage, pedestrian: A pedestrian-only or combined pedestrian and bicycle connector that provides transverse access through a long block or from the bulb of a cul-de-sac to an adjacent street.
2.2.49.
Planning commission: The duly appointed planning commission of the City of Opp, Alabama.
2.2.50.
Planned development: An area to be planned, developed, operated, and maintained as a single entity containing one or more structures to accommodate a mixture of uses incidental to each other.
Refer also to article 8 of the zoning ordinance.
2.2.51.
Plat.
A map of a subdivision.
2.2.52.
Pre-application conference.
An initial meeting between the applicant and city representatives which affords the applicant the opportunity to present a subdivision or site plan proposal informally.
2.2.53.
Preliminary plat: A map and related materials indicating the proposed layout of a proposed subdivision submitted to the planning commission for its consideration.
2.2.54.
Preliminary plat approval: The conferral of certain rights prior to final plat approval after specific elements of a proposed subdivision have been agreed upon by the planning commission and the applicant.
2.2.55.
Probate judge: The probate judge of Covington County, Alabama.
2.2.56.
Public improvement: Any improvement, facility, or service, together with customary improvements and appurtenances thereto, necessary to provide for public needs such as: vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems, storm sewers, flood control improvements, water supply and distribution facilities, sanitary sewage disposal and treatment, public utility and energy services.
2.2.57.
Reserve strip: A strip of land, smaller than a lot, serving as a means of controlling access to land dedicated or intended to be dedicated to street or other public use.
2.2.58.
Re-subdivision: A combination, recombination, or splitting of previously recorded lots or tracts of contiguous land for the purpose of creating additional lots or enlarging existing ones.
2.2.59.
Retention basin or retention pond: A basin designed to capture and store stormwater runoff.
2.2.60.
Right of way: A strip of land occupied by a street, pedestrian or bicycle passage, railroad, electric transmission lines, gas pipelines, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, and/or other special uses and dedicated to the city, state or federal government in fee simple, or by other legal means such as prescription.
2.2.61.
Runoff: That part of precipitation, which flows over the land.
2.2.62.
Setback: The distance from the property lines to the building or projections thereof, excluding uncovered steps or other projections specified by the zoning ordinance.
Depending on context, setback may refer to a minimum required distance or an as-built distance.
2.2.63.
Shared access: A driveway, alley or similar accessway connecting two or more contiguous sites to a public street.
2.2.64.
Shoulder: A reserved, graded portion of the right-of-way, whether paved or unpaved, that lies between the edge of the main pavement and curb line or swale.
2.2.65.
Sidewalk: A paved path or walkway constructed for use by pedestrians, usually located at the side of the street and inside the right-of-way.
2.2.66.
Sight distance: The length of street visible to a motorist at a given point when viewing is unobstructed by traffic.
1.
Intersection sight distance: The length of the line of sight between a motorist, stopped at an intersection, and the nearest intersection, driveway, alley or other signalized or non-signalized access point to the left or to the right of the motorist.
2.
Stopping sight distance: The distance required by a motorist to stop a vehicle traveling at or near the design speed of a thoroughfare before reaching a traffic-controlled intersection or stationary object in their path.
2.2.67.
Significant increase in trip generation : A change in the use of a property, including land, structures or facilities, or an expansion of the size of structures or facilities causing an increase in the trip generation of the property exceeding ten percent, either peak or daily, and 100 vehicles per day more than the existing use for all streets under city or county jurisdiction; or exceeding 25 percent, either peak or daily, and 100 vehicles per day more than the existing use for all roads under State of Alabama jurisdiction.
2.2.68.
Site plan: A development plan of a multifamily residential or nonresidential development, drawn to scale, illustrating existing conditions and details of a proposed development.
2.2.69.
Sketch plan: A preliminary presentation and attendant documentation of a proposed subdivision to be used for review and discussion prior to application for a preliminary plat.
2.2.70.
Street: A vehicular way dedicated for public use including all land within the right-of-way.
Streets are further classified as:   1.
Arterial: A major street serving as a primary artery, intended to mainly carry through traffic and to connect major activity centers in the city, and as further classified following:  a.
Major arterials include US 331, US 84, AL 52, and AL 134.  b.
Minor arterials include Florala Hwy, W Cummings Ave, Business 33, and E Stewart Ave.   2.
Collector: A street that collects traffic from an area and moves it to the arterial network while providing some access to abutting property, including, but not limited to: Opine Road, Old Perry Store Road, Maloy St, N Jackson St, Cool Springs Road, and Barnes St.  3.
Frontage road: A minor street that parallels and [is] adjacent to an arterial and that provides access to abutting properties.
4.
Local street: A minor street used primarily for access to abutting properties.
2.2.71.
Street stub or stub street: A portion of a street used as an extension to an abutting property that may be developed in the future.
2.2.72.
Subdivision: The division of a lot, tract, or a parcel of land into two or more parcels, lots, plats, sites or other divisions of land, whether described by metes and bounds or by another description, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of subdividing or re-subdividing or selling.
2.2.73.
Subdivision official: That official, designated by the city council, to administer and enforce these regulations, including his/her designee.
2.2.74.
Subdivision regulations or these regulations: The subdivision regulations of the City of Opp, Alabama, together with all applicable design and construction standards of the city.
2.2.75.
Subgrade: The level layer of rock or earth upon which the foundation of a street is laid.
2.2.76.
Surveyor or land surveyor: A land surveyor registered by and in good standing with the State of Alabama Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and land surveyors.
2.2.77.
Swale: A constructed watercourse shaped or graded in earthen materials, grassed, and which conveys storm runoff.
2.2.78.
Thoroughfare plan: That element of the comprehensive plan of the city which sets forth the freeways, arterials, and major collector streets in the city, provides for their approximate alignment, minimum right-of-way and paving width, and is to be used as a guide for all future development.
2.2.79.
Travel way: That part of a street between the established curb lines, or that part of the street devoted to vehicular traffic.
2.2.80.
Variance: A waiver from compliance with a specific provision of these regulations granted by the planning commission because of unnecessary hardships that would be imposed by the strict application of that provision of these regulations.
2.2.81.
Watercourse: A permanent or intermittent stream, river, brook, run, creek, channel, swale or bioswale, pond, lake or other body of surface water, carrying or holding surface water, whether natural or manmade.
2.2.82.
Zoning ordinance: The officially adopted ordinance and map of the city which provides for the delineation of districts, permitted uses in each district, and for controls of such factors as lot coverage and density.
Sec.
2.3.
- Abbreviations used in these regulations.
2.3.1.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
2.3.2.
ALDOT: Alabama Department of Transportation.
2.3.3.
CAD: Computer aided drafting.
2.3.4.  ft.: Feet.
2.3.5.  lf: Linear feet.
2.3.6.
max.
: Maximum.
2.3.7.
min.
: Minimum.
2.3.8.  mph: Miles per hour.
2.3.9.
MUTCD: Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
2.3.10.
NFIP: National Flood Insurance Program.
2.3.11.
PDF: Portable Document Format.
2.3.12.
ROW: Right-of-way.
2.3.13.  sf: Square feet.
2.3.14.
yd.
: Yard.
ARTICLE 3.
- PROCEDURE   Sec.
3.1.
- Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish an orderly, expeditious procedure for review and action, by the planning commission, on applications for subdivisions and/or site plans.
Whenever any subdivision is proposed, before any contract is made for the sale of any part thereof, and before any building permit may be granted thereon, the property owner or authorized agent shall apply for and secure approval of such proposed subdivision in accordance with the following procedures:   3.1.1.
Exempt subdivisions.
The following types of subdivisions are exempt from any requirement for approval by the commission in accordance with these regulations.
The city may require documentation to substantiate a claim of exemption:   1.
Subdivision of land by testamentary or in testate provisions; and   2.
Subdivision of land by court order, including, but not limited to, judgments of foreclosure.
3.1.2.
For subdivisions, see § 3.2, pre-application, through § 3.7, improvements and bonding.
For site plans, refer to § 3.9, site plan approval.
Sec.
3.2.
- Pre-application.
3.2.1.
Whenever a subdivision or development within the city is proposed, the applicant is urged to consult early and informally with city staff and, as appropriate, a designated member of the planning commission.
This informal consultation will usually save time and money as the application proceeds through preliminary and final approvals, as applicable.
No formal application is required.
3.2.2.
Following such consultation, the applicant may proceed to prepare the preliminary plat.
Neither the applicant nor the planning commission shall be bound by the pre-application review; and it is expressly understood that favorable consideration at the pre-application stage of the process shall not be construed as preliminary or tentative approval, nor bind either party.
3.2.3.
Submittal of a sketch plan prior to the preliminary plat application is encouraged and may be required by the subdivision official for planned unit developments and similar large-scale developments.
This shall not be required of minor subdivision as defined in § 3.3, minor subdivision, procedure.
Following submission to the subdivision official and tentative approval, the applicant may then apply for preliminary plat review and approval.
The sketch plan shall be prepared at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet and shall include the following, at a minimum:   1.
A vicinity map at one inch equals 400 feet or as otherwise approved by the subdivision official.
2.
Name of the proposed subdivision and adjoining subdivisions.
3.
Boundary of the subdivision with approximate tie points accepted corner based upon the public land survey system.
4.
Topography at five ft. contour or smaller intervals.
5.
Location of existing and proposed improvements within 200 ft. of the proposed subdivision.
6.
Approximate locations and widths of all existing and proposed rights-of-way.
7.
Approximate locations and dimension of all proposed lots.
8.
Approximate locations of all parcels of land to be set aside for public uses and common areas.
Sec.
3.3.
- Minor subdivisions, procedure.
3.3.1.
The following types of subdivisions shall be considered minor subdivisions and shall be subject to a streamlined review and approval process as described in this § 3.3:   1.
The division of a tract of land of legal record into lots of not less than ten acres each, for the purpose of selling said lots but not for development of the same, and involving no street improvements, utilities extensions or other public improvements;   2.
The division of a tract of land into no more than five lots all fronting on an existing paved public street and not requiring the construction or extension of any new streets, municipal facilities or public improvements;   3.
The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining property in which no additional lots are created and where the resulting lots or tracts are not reduced below the minimum requirements of the zoning ordinance; or   4.
Instruments correcting surveying data or other details of a previously recorded subdivision plat.
3.3.2.
Procedure.
Applications shall be submitted to the subdivision official 21 days in advance of the next regularly scheduled planning commission meeting.
Incomplete applications shall be denied by the subdivision official, and the reasons for such denial shall be provided to the applicant.
Following review of a completed application, the subdivision official shall report his findings and recommendations to the planning commission, which shall afford a public hearing on the plat.
Notice of the hearing shall be provided by registered or certified mail to the applicant and owners of land adjoining the proposed subdivision at least five days in advance of the hearing.
Minor subdivision applications may include a request for final approval as provided in § 3.8, combined preliminary and final plat approval.
3.3.3.
The plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor and shall be drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet and shall provide, at a minimum, the following:   1.
The name of the proposed subdivision or the words "re-subdivision of," as applicable;   2.
The name, address and deed book and page of record of the legal owner and the name and address of the agent(s) acting for the legal owner, if any;   3.
The name, address and seal of the project land surveyor or project engineer;   4.
The names and addresses of owners of adjoining parcels of land as they appear on current tax records, including deed book and page;   5.
Date, north point, graphic scale and the total acreage of the subdivision;   6.
The location of the subdivision by public land survey system legal description including sufficient description to clearly define the lands; and lot, block, subdivision name, parcel numbers and legal deed book and page of all portions that are part of previously approved subdivision of legal record;   7.
A vicinity map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and all existing and approved streets within 1,200 ft. of the perimeter of the proposed plat;   8.
The exact length (to the nearest hundredth of a foot) and bearing (to the nearest tenth of a second of arc) of the exterior boundaries of the proposed plat;   9.
Dimensions and areas of all lots and other land areas and the bearings of the respective sides with all lots and blocks numbered where applicable;   10.
Approximate radii, central angle, arc distance, chord lengths and points of tangency of all curves;   11.
Zoning classification of the subject land and all adjoining tracts;   12.
The location, widths and names of all existing and platted streets, alleys, pedestrian ways or other public ways and easements, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks, cemeteries, drainage ditches, water courses, bridges, and other permanent or temporary buildings or structures, and other public places on or adjacent to the subject land;   13.
Private property to be held in common and land intended to be dedicated to public use, or to be reserved by deed covenant for use of all property owners in the subdivision with conditions, if any, of such dedication or reservations;   14.
Floodplain boundaries, including the contour line of the floodway, the flood profile elevation (100-year flood) and the contour line two feet above the flood profile elevation.
3.3.4.
The application shall also be accompanied by the following executed endorsements:   1.
Project surveyor's or engineer's certificate and description of land platted;   2.
Notarized dedication;   3.
Any restrictions or special notations that may be required by these subdivision regulations;   4.
Certification by the City Planner that the property and the plat has been inspected and reviewed and that it is found in compliance with applicable city regulations;   5.
Certificate of approval from the electric, water, gas, and sanitary sewer providers, and any other interested city, county or state departments;   6.
Certificate of approval form for execution following approval by the planning commission; and   7.
Any additional certificates or endorsements as may be required.
3.3.5.
Planning commission action.
The planning commission shall approve, approve conditionally, or disapprove the plat within 30 days after the submission thereof at its regular meeting.
If approved conditionally, the conditions and reasons therefor shall be stated, and if necessary, the planning commission may require the applicant to submit a revised plat.
If any of the requirements are modified or waived, the reasons for such shall be specified.
If the planning commission should disapprove the plat, the reasons for such action shall be stated and if possible, recommendations be made on the basis of which the subdivision may be approved.
One copy of the plat as acted upon by the planning commission shall be retained at city hall, one copy forwarded to the City Planner, and one copy returned to the applicant.
Sec.
3.4.
- Major subdivisions, procedure.
For approval of a subdivision not otherwise classified as a minor subdivision, the following procedure shall apply:   3.4.1.
The applicant shall first submit an application for preliminary plat approval in accordance with § 3.5, preliminary plat approval.
Approval of the preliminary plat is authorization that the subdivider may proceed with the staking of streets and lots in preparation for construction of improvements and for final platting pursuant to the bonding requirements set forth in § 3.7, improvements and bonding.
3.4.2.
Where the site of a proposed subdivision is believed to include natural or manmade hazards or sensitive environmental features, the subdivision official may require a site assessment be prepared as part of the preliminary plat application.
Site assessments shall be prepared and submitted with the preliminary plat application as follows:   1.
A site assessment map shall be prepared at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet and shall include the approximate locations and indication of size and condition of all natural and manmade hazards and sensitive environmental features found within the site, including, but not limited to:   a.  Geologic formations, soil classifications, colluvium, caves, sinkholes, landslides (active or inactive), and lineaments.
b.
Springs, streams (perennial, intermittent and wet weather), wetlands, seeps and ground water recharge points.
c.  Endangered or threatened species habitats as determined by the subdivision official from U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service documents.
d.  Evidence of above or below ground mining or quarry operations.
e.  Spoils and other dumping areas, fill and excavation areas.
f.  Wells, above or below ground storage tanks.
g.  Historic or archaeological features.
2.
A written and illustrated report shall clearly describe:   a.
Names and qualifications of those performing the site assessment.
b.
Methods used in the site assessment.
c.  Findings for all features, including, where appropriate, descriptive lists of features, illustrations and photographs.
d.  Conclusions as to how the findings may impact development of the site.
e.  Recommendations for mitigating hazards and sensitive environmental features.
3.
Site assessment certification, as provided in [the] appendix.
4.
Geotechnical investigation and testing plan.
Where construction is proposed on lands or portions of land where colluvium, evidence of mine operations, dump sites, existing fill and excavation areas and similar hazards are present or when in the professional opinion of the geotechnical engineer of record, geotechnical testing should be performed, a geotechnical investigation and testing plan shall be prepared and submitted.
3.4.3.
Clearing, grubbing, erosion control, and rough grading may be subject to permitting by the Alabama Department of Environmental Management or other agencies and, if performed prior to preliminary plat approval, shall be at the owner's risk and may require re-work.
Installation of any permanent structures such as storm pipe, utility pipe, storm structures, etc., shall not be permitted without prior approval of the city.
3.4.4.
Preliminary plat approval is revocable and is to be considered only as tentative approval of the design, with the understanding that the planning commission, the City Planner, utility providers, and health department will examine the grades of streets, the types of improvements, the layout of drainage and sewerage systems and the water system, and may modify any engineering or construction details submitted by the applicant when required for the protection of the public interest.
3.4.5.
Upon approval of the preliminary plat, the applicant shall then submit an application for final plat approval in accordance with § 3.6, final plat approval.
Sec.
3.5.
- Preliminary plat approval.
The planning commission review of the preliminary plat for major subdivisions shall be governed by the procedure set forth in section 11-52-31 and 32, Code of Alabama 1975 [Code of Ala. 1975, §§ 11-52-31 and 11-52-32], as amended.
Prior to the cutting or grading of any street or the making of any street improvement or the installation of utilities, the applicant shall submit a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the following procedure:   3.5.1.
Following pre-application review and/or sketch plan review, if applicable, the applicant shall submit to the subdivision official, at least 30 days prior to the next regular meeting of the planning commission, a preliminary plat application.
The application shall include four print copies and an electronic version (in a format acceptable to the subdivision official) of the preliminary plat and other documents, as specified herein.
The applicant shall consult with and request preliminary approval from all concerned utility providers and shall include documentation of such preliminary approval with the application.
For multi-phase subdivisions, the preliminary plat shall include all proposed phases of [the] subdivision, which shall include a phasing plan.
The phasing plan shall show the order of the phases and the requirements to be satisfied in each phase.
The phasing plan must show that the degree and extent of streets, water supply, sewage disposal, stormwater management, and other required improvements must be sufficient to serve or handle all development within each phase, in the event that subsequent phases are abandoned or remain undeveloped for an extended period of time.
After preliminary plat approval, an individual phase may be modified, if approved by the planning commission, at the time of final plat approval for that phase as provided in § 3.8, combined preliminary and final plat approval.
3.5.2.
The subdivision official shall check the proposed plat for conformance with applicable city regulations.
Incomplete applications shall be denied by the subdivision official, and the reasons for such denial shall be provided to the applicant.
Following review of a completed application, the subdivision official shall report his findings and recommendations to the planning commission, which shall afford a public hearing on the preliminary plat.
Notice of the hearing shall be provided by registered or certified mail to the applicant and owners of land adjoining the proposed subdivision at least five days in advance of the hearing.
3.5.3.
Planning commission action.
The planning commission shall approve, approve conditionally, or disapprove a preliminary plat within 30 days after the submission thereof at its regular meeting unless the applicant agrees to an extension of that time.
If approved conditionally, the conditions and reasons therefor shall be stated, and if necessary, the planning commission may require the applicant to submit a revised preliminary plat.
If any of the requirements are modified or waived, the reasons for such shall be specified.
If the planning commission should disapprove the preliminary plat, the reasons for such action shall be stated and if possible, recommendations be made on the basis of which the proposed subdivision may be approved.
One copy of the preliminary plat as acted upon by the planning commission shall be retained at city hall, one copy forwarded to the City Planner, and one copy returned to the applicant.
The approval of the preliminary plat shall not be deemed final acceptance, but rather an expression of approval of the subdivision layout as proposed on the preliminary plat.
3.5.4.
Time limit.
Preliminary plat approval shall be null and void if the final plat is not approved by the planning commission within 12 months after the date of approval, unless application for an extension of time is made in writing during said period to the planning commission and granted.
If the final plat is not submitted within this time limit, the preliminary plat must be resubmitted for approval as a new application.
However, if a final plat of a part of the subdivision has been approved within said period, approval of the preliminary plat shall automatically be extended for 12 months from the date of final plat approval of that part of the subdivision, and the same automatic extension shall apply in subsequent cases of submission of a final plat of part of the subdivision.
In such cases and at any time after the initial 12 months during which the preliminary plat approval is effective, the planning commission may notify the applicant of changes it may require to meet new or changed conditions.
A corrected preliminary plat with all conditions fulfilled shall be submitted prior to the construction or installation of any improvements.
3.5.5.
The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor or engineer and shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:   1.
A vicinity map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and all existing and approved streets within 1,200 ft. of the perimeter of the proposed plat.
2.
The name of the proposed subdivision or the words "re-subdivision of," as applicable.
3.
The location of the subdivision by public land survey system legal description including sufficient description to clearly define the lands; and lot, block, subdivision name; parcel numbers and legal deed book and page of all portions that are part of [the] previously approved subdivision of legal record.
4.
The name, address and deed book and page of record of the legal owner and the name and address of the agent(s) acting for the legal owner, if any.
5.
The name, address and seal of the project land surveyor or engineer.
6.
Date, north point, a graphic scale and the total amount of acreage in the subdivision.
7.
The exact length (to the nearest hundredth of a foot) and bearing (to the nearest tenth of a second of arc) of the exterior boundaries of the proposed plat.
8.
The location of existing platted property lines, streets, driveways, buildings, watercourses, railroads, sewers, bridges, culverts, drain pipes, water mains, and any public utility easements, both on the land subdivided and on the adjoining land.
9.
The names of adjacent subdivisions and the names and addresses of owners of adjoining parcels of land as they appear on the current tax records, including deed book and page.
10.
The names, locations, widths, and other dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, easements, parks and other open spaces, reservations, lot lines, and buildings.
Dimensions, bearings and area in acres shall be provided for each lot and other land area.
11.
Profiles of all streets showing natural and finished grades to a scale of not more than one inch equals 100 feet horizontal and one inch equals ten feet vertical when required by the planning commission, and such plans as may be specifically required under another section of these regulations.
12.
Proposed plans or utility layouts (sewer, water, gas, electricity and street lights) showing connections to existing and proposed systems.
13.
If the proposed subdivision does not lie within the jurisdiction of the zoning ordinance, the preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a plan which indicates the restrictions and proposed use of the lots.
14.
Minimum building front, rear, and side yard setbacks.
15.
The present and proposed (if applicable) zoning classification on the land to be subdivided and on adjoining properties.
16.
Contour lines shown at five-foot intervals, except that where deemed necessary, the planning commission may require contour lines at two-foot intervals.
17.
Drainage plan showing existing drainage conditions and proposed improvements and including engineering calculations on which the drainage design is based.
18.
Street cross sections with right-of-way and pavement widths.
19.
Approximate radii, central angles, arc distances, chord lengths and points of tangency of all curves.
20.
The boundaries of any regulatory floodplain on the site with FIRM panel number and effective date.
If the property is overlaid by a special flood hazard district A (unstudied), the applicant shall conduct a flood study delineating a floodway and base flood elevations.
Minimum finished floor elevations shall be provided for all lots located within a 100-year floodplain   21.
Lot numbers and block letters.
22.
Inscription stating "NOT FOR FINAL RECORDING."
23.
Certificates.
The following certificates and any additional endorsements as may be required (refer to samples provided in the appendix):   a.
If the proposed subdivision will not be served by municipal sewer facilities, a certificate from the state and/or county health department indicating their approval   b.
Certificate of approval from the electric, water, gas, and sanitary sewer providers, and any other interested city, county or state departments   c.  Certificates of approval shall be inscribed on the plat, (refer to samples provided in the appendix), which shall be signed by the planning commission chairperson, subdivision official, City Planner and others as may be required.
3.5.6.
One copy of the preliminary plat shall be retained in the planning commission files.
Sec.
3.6.
- Final plat approval.
3.6.1.
Following preliminary plat approval of a major subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the subdivision official an application requesting review and approval of a final plat of the proposed subdivision.
The request for final plat approval shall be submitted within one year of preliminary plat approval and 30 days prior to the next regular meeting of the planning commission.
The final plat shall consist of the original plat and five printed copies with signed certifications, one copy of the final plat in reproducible form and any other documents specified herein.
Submission of electronic copies of the proposed final plat in CAD, PDF or similar formats is encouraged as well.
3.6.2.
The subdivision official shall review the plat for conformance with the approved preliminary plat and these regulations and report his findings and recommendations to the planning commission.
The planning commission shall afford a public hearing on the final plat notice of the time and place shall be sent by registered or certified mail to the applicant, not less than five days prior to the date of the hearing.
3.6.3.
Improvements.
Prior to the approval of the final plat, an agreement shall be reached between the applicant and the city with regard to the installation of any street improvements or utility construction called for on the subdivision plat.
The applicant shall be required to have installed at his expense the improvements specified in article 5, Improvements standards, except as otherwise approved in accordance with § 3.7, improvements and bonding.
3.6.4.
Planning commission action.
The planning commission shall approve or disapprove of the final plat within 30 days after the date of submission unless the applicant agrees to an extension of that time.
If the final plat is disapproved, the grounds for disapproval shall be stated in the records of the planning commission.
The action of the planning commission shall be shown on the final plat with the date of action shown over the signature of the person authorized by the planning commission to sign such plats.
Final plat approval carries with it the condition that the planning commission must be notified in writing by the subdivision official that either: (1) all required improvements have been satisfactorily installed and completed by the applicant, or (2) a bond has been posted to secure the same, before such final plat is signed as approved by the planning commission and before any public ways or lands are accepted by the city.
3.6.5.
Time limit.
Final plat approval shall be null and void if the plat is not recorded in the office of the probate judge within 60 days after the date of approval, unless application for an extension of time is made in writing during said period to the planning commission and granted.
3.6.6.
Final plat specifications.
The final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat with the following additions, which shall be sufficient to readily determine and reproduce on the ground the location, bearing and length of every street line, lot line, boundary line, block line, easement line and building setback line whether straight or curved.
Curves shall be described by radius, central angle, point of tangency, tangent distance, arc and chord:   1.
Bearings and distances to the nearest existing street lines or benchmarks or other permanent monuments (not less than three shall be accurately described on the plat).
2.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by a survey, giving distances to the nearest second, which shall be balanced and closed with an error closure not to exceed one to 10,000.
3.
Exact location, widths and names of all streets and alleys, including those within adjoining tracts.
4.
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii, and lengths of tangents.
5.
Lot lines with dimensions, to the nearest 1/100 of a foot, and bearings.
6.
Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
7.
Locations, dimensions and purposes of easements and any areas to be reserved or dedicated for common or public use.
8.
Accurate location, material and description of existing and proposed monuments and markers.
9.
A statement, either directly on the plat or in an identified attached document, concerning any private covenants.
10.
If any portion of the land being subdivided is subject to flooding, as defined in the flood damage prevention ordinance, the limit of such area(s) and minimum finished floor elevations for all lots within a 100-year floodplain.
11.
Any modifications, limitations and approval by the health department.
12.
Certificates.
The following endorsements, certificates and dedications shall be placed on the final plat:   a.
Certification of title showing that applicant is the landowner.
b.
Certificate of land surveyor and description of plat.
c.  Mortgage holder's certificate.
d.  Where a street or alley has been vacated, a note shall be shown on the plat indicating such and referring to the recorded instruments of vacation by deed book and page number.
e.  Notary's acknowledgment of dedication certificates, surveyor's certificate and mortgage holder's certificate.
f.  Certification from project engineer that all public improvements, including streets and drainage improvements, have been designed in accordance with these and all other applicable regulations and have been constructed in accordance with the approved plans.
g.  Certificate of approval by the planning commission.
h.  Certificates of approval by the City Planner and streets superintendent.
i.
Certificate for utility providers.
j.
Certificate of approval for recording by probate judge.
k.  Certificate of dedication, indicating whether there is a dedication of property for public purposes or not.
l.  Where an improvement bond is posted, a certificate of bond approval signed by the City Planner and city clerk.
3.6.7.
As-built engineering plan.
At the time of final plat approval, if applicable, the applicant shall also submit an as-built engineering plan, along with copies of all required permits, inspections and test data (including compaction test data for subgrade, base and core thickness), giving details of construction and locations of the improvements which have been installed.
The as-built engineering plan provides the city with a record of the location, size, and design of streets, drainage facilities, utilities and other improvements for the city's use in the course of maintaining such improvements.
Said as-built plan shall be presented in an electronic file format acceptable to the subdivision official and a paper hard copy.
If the installation of improvements is completed under an improvement bond, the plan shall be submitted to the city upon request of release of the improvement bond by the applicant and/or the developer's request for city acceptance of the improvements.
No improvements shall be accepted for city maintenance until all such materials have been received.
3.6.8.
Recording of final plat.
Planning commission approval of the final plat shall be null and void if the final plat is not recorded in the office of the probate judge within 60 days after approval, unless a request for extension is made in writing and is granted by the planning commission during said period.
No lot in the subdivision shall be sold prior to recording of the final plat with the probate judge.
Five copies of the final plat as recorded with the probate judge and a copy of any protective covenants or deed restrictions shall be provided by the applicant to the city for the records of the planning commission.
An electronic copy of the final plat, covenants and deed restrictions, in a format acceptable to the subdivision official, shall also be provided.
Sec.
3.7.
- Improvements and bonding.
3.7.1.
Improvements.
No final plat shall be approved by the planning commission or accepted for recording by the probate judge until one of the following conditions has been met and certified by the city clerk:   1.
All required improvements have been constructed or installed in a manner satisfactory to the appropriate department and approved by the planning commission; or   2.
The planning commission has accepted an improvement bond in the form of a cashier's check, or irrevocable letter of credit from a bank or lending institution, or an escrow account with the City of Opp in accordance with the following:   a.
The bond method shall be approved by the city attorney and city council.
b.
The applicant and any guarantor(s) shall be severally and jointly liable for completing the improvements according to specifications.
c.  The request to post an improvements bond shall be made in writing at least 30 days prior to the planning commission meeting at which the final plat is to be considered.
d.  Improvement bonds shall be equal to 125 percent of the estimated cost of the installation of the required improvements.
e.  A schedule of estimated costs for all items to be bonded shall be submitted by the project engineer for review by the City Planner.
This schedule shall clearly describe the items, quantities, unit cost and total cost of the remaining improvements.
f.  Bonds shall be retained by the city clerk until the council accepts dedication of the improvements and maintenance bonds have been filed.
g.  All improvement bonds required to be posted must be posted and accepted within 30 days after the date of final plat approval or the final plat shall automatically be voided.
3.7.2.
Completion and acceptance of improvements.
1.
Upon completion of required improvements, the City Planner and utilities providers shall file with the planning commission a statement either certifying that the improvements have been completed in the specific manner or listing the defects in those improvements.
2.
Upon completion of the improvements, the applicant shall file with the planning commission a statement stipulating the following:   a.
That all required improvements are complete.
b.
That the improvements are in compliance with the standards specified for their construction.
c.  That the applicant knows of no defects from any cause in those improvements.
d.  That the improvements are free and clear of any encumbrances or liens.
3.
If the project engineer has certified that the contracted improvements are complete and free from defect, and said improvements have passed inspection, then upon receipt of the other statements and agreements detailed above, the city shall accept the dedication of those improvements.
The city may, at its discretion, accept the dedication of any portion of the improvements, provided that all statements and agreements specified above have been received for that portion of the improvements.
Improvements to be dedicated to the Opp Utilities shall be accepted by the board according to its rules.
In no instance, however, shall the city accept improvements within any subdivision or part thereof until after water and sanitary sewer improvements have been accepted by said board.
4.
Failure to be accepted.
If any portion of required improvements fails to be accepted for dedication within the allocated time period, either for reason of incompletion or for reason of substandard construction, then the planning commission shall take the following action:   Where improvements have been guaranteed, the planning commission shall declare whatever bond has been pledged to be forfeit.
Where the planning commission is not already in possession of said bond, it shall immediately take the actions necessary to obtain it.
Upon receipt, the planning commission shall use them, or receipts from their sale if necessary, to finance the completion of contracted improvements or the rebuilding of such improvements to the proper specifications.
Unused portions of these securities shall be returned to the applicant, bonding company, or crediting institution, as appropriate.
3.7.3.
Maintenance bond.
In the event the subdivider has constructed all of the required improvements and no improvement agreement is required, the subdivider shall execute a maintenance agreement.
Such agreement shall be on a form furnished by the planning commission and shall warrant all materials and workmanship on the requirements and shall provide for maintenance on the requirements for a period of one year after the acceptance of such improvements by the city, provided that for major streets and subdivision entrance streets, a longer period may be required by the planning commission.
A bond shall be required to ensure the fulfillment of such agreement and shall be in the form provided by the planning commission.
Such maintenance bond shall be in an amount of $5,000.00 or 25 percent of the total cost of all improvements, whichever is greater.
A schedule of costs for all items to be bonded shall be submitted by the project engineer for review and approval by the subdivision official.
This schedule shall clearly describe the items, quantities, unit cost and total cost of the required improvements.
Sec.
3.8.
- Combined preliminary and final plat approval.
An applicant may submit a combined request for both preliminary plat and final plat approval.
In such cases all requirements for both preliminary and final plat approval shall be met.
Sec.
3.9.
- Site plan approval.
3.9.1.
Whenever any multifamily or nonresidential development or change or expansion of such uses of a site is proposed or whenever any changes are proposed that differ from an existing approved site plan before any construction, land clearing, building development or change in use is begun and before any building permit or authorization for development on such site shall be granted, the property owner or his authorized agent shall apply for and secure from the planning commission site plan approval in accordance with the procedures outlined herein.
1.
The following shall require site plan approval (Where there is any doubt as to whether or not site plan review is required, the affected party should request a determination from the subdivision official.
):   a.
New construction of nonresidential or multifamily development.
b.
Any change of an existing use to multifamily or nonresidential.
c.  A development proposal involving external modifications or construction, including parking lots (except for single-family or duplex residential).
d.  A development proposal involving expansion of a building or intensification of multifamily or nonresidential uses that would result in a change in traffic volume or patterns in the area, noise, parking, lighting, etc.
e.  A development involving a property that has never received site plan approval for previous nonresidential or multifamily use.
2.
The following shall not require site plan approval:   a.
Single-family and duplex residential developments.
b.
Proposals that involve no change in use or level of activity.
c.  Internal building modifications that do not affect the scale or impact of the existing use.
d.  Re-use of a premises with an approved site plan, provided the new use is not different in type or impact.
3.9.2.
Procedure, planning commission action.
1.
The subdivision official shall review the plan for conformance with applicable regulations and report his findings and recommendations to the planning commission.
2.
The planning commission shall approve or disapprove of the site plan within 30 days after the date of submission unless the applicant agrees to an extension of that time.
If the site plan is disapproved, the grounds for disapproval shall be stated in the records of the planning commission.
The action of the planning commission shall be shown on the approved site plan with the date of action shown over the signature of the person authorized by the planning commission to sign such plans.
3.
Site plan approval shall become null and void if within one year from the date of approval, a building permit has not been applied for, unless a request for extension is made in writing and is granted by the planning commission during said period.
3.9.3.
Clearing, grubbing, erosion control, and rough grading may be subject to permitting by the Alabama Department of Environmental Management or other agencies and, if performed prior to site plan approval, shall be at the owner's risk and may require re-work.
Installation of any permanent structures such as storm pipe, utility pipe, storm structures, etc., shall not be permitted without prior approval of the city.
3.9.4.
Submittal requirements.
A site plan application shall contain the following, at a minimum:   1.
The name, address and deed book and page of record of the legal owner and the name and address of the authorized agent, if any.
2.
The name, address and seal of the project land surveyor, engineer, or other designer as applicable.
3.
Names and addresses of all owners of abutting property as they appear on current tax records.
4.
Names and addresses of all holders of restrictions and easements on the property.
5.
A vicinity map showing the location of the development and all existing and proposed streets within 1,200 ft. of the perimeter of the development site.
6.
Date, north point, a graphic scale and the area of the premises in square feet and acres.
7.
Locations of property lines, streets, driveways, sidewalks, buildings, watercourses, railroads, sewers, bridges, culverts, drain pipes, and water mains on the site and on abutting property.
8.
The names, locations, widths, and other dimensions of proposed drives, lot lines, buildings and other improvements.
9.
Location, dimensions, and design of garbage collection areas.
10.
Grading plan including existing and proposed contour lines shown at one ft. intervals, unless otherwise permitted by the subdivision official.
11.
Drainage plan showing existing drainage conditions and proposed improvements and including engineering calculations on which the drainage design is based.
12.
Identification of all accesses to the site, sight distance at access points, dimensions of curb cuts and distances from intersections and driveways on adjacent properties.
13.
Proposed utility layouts.
14.
If not to be served by municipal sewer facilities, a certificate or letter from the state and/or county health department indicating their approval   15.
Certificate of approval from the electric, water, gas, and sanitary sewer providers, and any other interested city, county or state departments.
16.
All existing and proposed easements, deed restrictions, and reservations on the site.
17.
Minimum building front, rear, and side yard setbacks.
18.
The zoning classification of the site and on abutting properties.
19.
Location and total number of parking and loading spaces.
20.
A landscape plan, describing the number, location, types and size of all landscape elements, buffers and screening.
21.
The location, type and nature of all exterior lighting and signage.
22.
Base flood elevations and flood hazard areas, based on available FEMA maps.
For multi-phase developments, grading, drainage and similar plans for each phase may be required by the subdivision official for review and approval by the planning commission.
ARTICLE 4.
- SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS   All proposed subdivisions shall conform to all applicable state and local regulations, including the zoning ordinance where in effect.
The design standards of this article shall be the minimum standards allowable for development.
Standards above the minimum may be required by the planning commission or the subdivision official.
Detailed construction specifications and engineering requirements may be obtained from the subdivision official.
Prior to the planning commission's consideration of any request for a variance, modification, or waiver of the requirements of this article, the subdivision official shall provide its recommendation to the planning commission regarding such request.
Sec.
4.1.
- Purpose.
The purpose of good subdivision and site design is to ensure functional and attractive developments, to minimize adverse impacts, and make projects assets to the community.
To promote this purpose, the subdivision and/or site plan shall conform to the following standards, which are designed to result in a well-planned community without adding unnecessarily to development costs.
Sec.
4.2.
- General subdivision design standards.
4.2.1.
Site analysis.
An analysis shall be made of characteristics of the proposed site, such as site context; geology and soil; topography; existing vegetation; structures and street networks; visual features; and use of the site.
Development of the site shall be based on the site analysis.
To the maximum extent practicable, development shall be located so as to preserve the natural features of the site, to avoid or protect areas of environmental sensitivity, and to minimize negative impacts and alteration of natural features.
4.2.2.
Suitability of the land.
The planning commission may not approve the subdivision of land, if from adequate investigation conducted by all public agencies concerned, it has been determined that in the best interest of public health, safety and welfare, the site is not suitable for platting and development as proposed.
However, an applicant may nonetheless propose a new plat with a different layout, change in use or intensity, or other change in response to the issues raised by the applicable public agencies during review of a previous plat proposal.
4.2.3.
Stormwater drainage design.
The rate of stormwater runoff from any development resulting from the 25-year rainfall occurring within the space of one hour shall not exceed the predevelopment stormwater runoff rate for a 25-year rainfall occurring within the space of one hour.
4.2.4.
Development in flood zones.
The development of land, subject to flooding, shall be done in accordance with the flood damage prevention ordinance and the applicable regulations of the national flood insurance program (NFIP).
Development in a designated floodway is prohibited unless certification by the project engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
4.2.5.
Conformity with other plans and regulations.
Design of the development shall take into consideration all existing local and regional plans and shall conform to the zoning ordinance where in effect.
1.
No final plat of land within the force and effect of the zoning ordinance shall be approved unless the building restrictions to be established conform to the applicable regulations of the zoning ordinance.
2.
Public uses.
If public sites are shown in the comprehensive plan to be set aside or if such sites are recommended as essential by the planning commission or city council, such sites shall be reserved for such purpose for a period of two years from the date the subdivision is recorded.
If at the end of two years the city has not taken action to acquire the property, the applicant may request a hearing before the planning commission to waive the reservation or to otherwise determine the fate of said site.
4.2.6.
Preservation areas.
The following specific areas should be preserved as undeveloped open space, to the extent consistent with the reasonable use of the land and in accordance with applicable state or local regulations:   1.
Significant trees or stands of trees;   2.
Lands in the flood plain, as defined and or depicted on the flood maps provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and as outlined in the flood damage prevention ordinance.
3.
Steep slopes in excess of 20 percent as measured over a ten-foot interval unless appropriate engineering measures concerning slope stability, erosion, and resident safety are taken.
4.
Habitats of endangered wildlife.
5.
Historically significant structures and sites, as listed on federal, state or local registers of historic places.
4.2.7.
The development shall be laid out to avoid adversely affecting ground water; to reduce cutting and filling; to avoid unnecessary impervious cover; to prevent flooding; to provide adequate access to lots and sites; and mitigate adverse effects of noise, odor, traffic, drainage, and utilities on neighboring properties.
4.2.8.
The street, parcel and block pattern of all proposed developments shall be adapted appropriately to the uses anticipated.
4.2.9.
Where applicable, a proposed phasing plan shall provide for continuity of development through phases of reasonable proportions.
4.2.10.
Lot and block size, shape and orientation shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision, its environmental systems and for the type of development anticipated.
4.2.11.
When land is subdivided into parcels larger than ordinary building lots, such parcels should be arranged and designed so as to allow for future resubdivision and extension of future streets.
4.2.12.
The proposed street layout shall be appropriate for the type of development proposed and appropriately integrated with the surrounding street system.
4.2.13.
The proposed street layout shall conform substantially to a development pattern for the subject and surrounding area that will be in accord with the comprehensive plan, as interpreted by the planning commission.
4.2.14.
Where community or public facilities, existing or as proposed in the comprehensive plan, are to be located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision or development, such area(s) necessary to accommodate these facilities shall be reserved.
Sec.
4.3.
- Residential subdivision design standards.
4.3.1.
All residential lots shall abut a public street unless otherwise permitted for planned developments in accordance with the zoning ordinance.
4.3.2.
Every lot shall have sufficient access to it for emergency vehicles, as required by the adopted fire code.
4.3.3.
The placement of dwelling units shall take into consideration topography, privacy, building height, orientation, drainage, and aesthetics.
4.3.4.
Buildings shall be spaced so that adequate privacy is provided for units.
For the purposes of applying subdivision standards in a manner that is sensitive to the type of development proposed, residential subdivisions are hereby classified as: low density (R-1 zoning or minimum average lot size of 15,000 sf.
); medium density (R-2 zoning or a minimum average lot size between 10,500 and 15,000 sf.)
and high density (all other residential zoning classifications or any multifamily or townhouse development or single-family lots less than 10,500 sf.).
Sec.
4.4.
- Nonresidential subdivision design standards.
Except as otherwise specified, all commercial and industrial subdivisions shall be subject to all design standards in this article 4 and shall be designed according to the same principles governing the design of residential developments; namely, that buildings and streets shall be located according to topography, with environmentally sensitive areas avoided to the maximum extent practicable; factors such as drainage, noise, odor, and surrounding land uses shall be considered in citing buildings; sufficient access shall be provided; and adverse impacts buffered or otherwise mitigated.
Following subdivision of the land, nonresidential developments shall also be reviewed in accordance with § 3.9, site plan approval, and the site design standards in article 6 to ensure that the subdivision will accommodate the requirements of the uses contemplated and the requirements of the zoning ordinance.
Sec.
4.5.
- Circulation system design.
The street system shall be designed to permit the safe, efficient, and orderly movement of traffic; to meet the needs of the present and future population served; to have a simple and logical pattern; to respect natural features and topography; and to present an attractive streetscape.
4.5.1.
Streets.
1.
Whenever land to be subdivided embraces any part of a highway or street so designated on any county or regional plan, such part of the proposed public way shall be platted by the same width as indicated on the county or regional plan.
2.
All streets shall be platted along contour elevations, which will result in minimum grades and greater visibility wherever practical, with consideration given to the anticipated use of the land.
3.
The proposed street layout shall be made according to good land planning practices for the type development proposed and shall be coordinated with the street systems of the surrounding areas.
4.
Proposed new streets shall extend existing streets or their projections at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the minimum required width.
5.
To ensure proper circulation and emergency response, all residential subdivisions containing 50 or more lots shall have a minimum of two access points on external streets.
6.
To ensure future street connections where a proposed development abuts unplatted land or a future development phase of the same development, street stubs shall be provided for access to abutting properties or to logically extend the street system as determined by the planning commission.
a.
All street stubs shall be provided with temporary turnarounds except where the street stub is 200 feet or less in length.
The area necessary for the temporary turnaround outside the normal right-of-way shall be contained within a temporary easement, which shall automatically dissolve when the street is extended and approved by the city.
The length of the turnaround shall be in accordance with § 4.5.4.4, dead end streets.
b.
Street improvements shall extend to within five ft. of the boundary of the property.
Rights-of-way shall extend to the boundary.
c.  Paving and utilities shall be extended far enough to serve the developing lots and, unless approved otherwise by the City Planner, shall be extended the same distance.
d.  The restoration and extension of the street shall be the responsibility of the future developer of the abutting land.
The planning commission may waive this provision if in their determination, there is no feasible way to continue the street in the foreseeable future.
4.5.2.
The platting of any land, the purpose of which is to deny access to rights-of-way, is prohibited, except as otherwise provided herein.
There shall be no reserve strips controlling access to streets, except where the control of such strips is specifically placed with the city and under conditions approved by the planning commission.
4.5.3.
Private streets.
There shall be no private streets platted in any subdivision.
4.5.4.
Street design requirements.
Minimum street right-of-way, pavement width, and cross section elements shall be as provided in table 4-1 and as illustrated in figure 4.1.
All streets shall include curb and gutter.
1.
Additional widths on half streets.
Subdivisions that adjoin existing half streets shall dedicate additional right-of-way to meet the minimum street width requirements.
The entire right-of-way shall be dedicated where any part of the subdivision is on both sides of the half street; and where the subdivision is located on only one side of a half street, the amount of right-of-way to be dedicated is as follows:   a.
If the land across the roadway from the proposed subdivision has not been subdivided or developed, the subdivider is only required to dedicate one-half of the required right-of-way, measured from the center line of the existing roadway.
b.
If the land across the roadway has been subdivided or developed, the subdivider is required to provide enough additional right-of-way on his side of the roadway to bring the total right-of-way to the required width.
2.
Topographic conditions and street grades.
In general, streets shall be planned to conform to existing topographic conditions.
Unless a steeper grade is approved by the Fire marshal, maximum street grades shall be: six percent on arterials and ten percent on collectors, local streets and alleys, with no grades exceeding the maximum for any length of street.
Grades of dead-end streets shall not exceed five percent for the cul-de-sac bulb or hammerhead.
To allow for proper drainage, no tangent street grade shall be less than one percent.
3.
Street intersections.
Insofar as practical, acute angles at street intersections shall be avoided.
Where an acute angle of less than 75 degrees occurs between streets at their intersections, the planning commission may require the property lines to be rounded or otherwise setback to permit curb construction of desirable radius without curtailing the sidewalk at the street corner to less than normal width.
Submission of a grading plan showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of one foot and a detailed design for the intersection may be required by the subdivision official.
4.
Dead end streets.
Streets designed to have one end permanently closed (cul-de-sac) shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround with a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet, and a minimum driving surface radius of 40 feet.
The maximum permitted length of a cul-de-sac is 600 feet.
5.
Medians.
Medians, where provided, shall have a minimum width of five ft. to allow for planting.
6.
On-street parking.
Lanes for on-street parking shall be provided on streets as required or as approved by the planning commission in accordance with the requirements in table 4-1 and the following:   a.
Generally, on-street parking is appropriate along local streets serving nonresidential, mixed-use, and high density residential uses.
b.
Parking lane width shall be measured from the face of curb.
7.
Planting strips.
Planting strips shall be provided between the curb and sidewalk, or in the absence of sidewalk, between the curb and right-of-way line.
Along residential streets, the planting strip shall be grassed or otherwise vegetative.
Along nonresidential streets, the planting strip may include regularly spaced street tree wells and an extension of the sidewalk to the curb.
On nonresidential streets with minimal pedestrian traffic expected, the planning commission may approve a continuous grassed or vegetative planting strip between the curb and sidewalk.
8.
Street elevations.
The planning commission may require, where necessary, profiles and elevations of streets in areas subject to flood, as defined in these regulations and the flood damage prevention ordinance and as identified on the flood maps provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
Fill may be used, except within identified floodways, where such fill does not increase flood heights.
4.5.5.
Street names.
Proposed street names shall be subject to approval of the planning commission.
Proposed streets obviously in alignment with existing and named streets shall bear the names of the existing streets.
In no case shall the name for the proposed streets duplicate existing street names.
4.5.6.
Horizontal curvature.
The minimum radii of centerline curvature shall be as provided in table 4-2 and as necessary to meet the applicable minimum sight distance.
See also figure 4.2.
Between reverse curves there shall be a tangent having a length of not less than 100 feet.
4.5.7.
Vertical alignment.
Vertical alignment shall be such that the minimum stopping and intersection sight distances in table 4-2 are met.
Stopping sight distance shall be determined using a height of eye of 3.5 feet and two feet object height.
The intersection sight distance shall be determined using a height of eye of 3.5 feet and 4.25 feet object height.
See also figure 4.2.
Table 4-1.
Street Design Standards   	Specifications are based on two-lane road sections.
The planning commission, upon a recommendation by the city planner, may require a median, turn lanes, acceleration and deceleration lanes, or additional travel lanes where trips generated by anticipated uses or where city, county, or regional plans require increased design improvements (see also figure 4.1).
Street Type  	Residential Local  	Residential Collector   	Posted Speed  	15-25  	25-35   	Design Speed  	20-30 mph  	30-40 mph   	Drainage Facility Width/Type  	18 inches; curb/gutter  	18 inches; curb/gutter   	Min.
Planting Strip  	4 ft. both sides  	4 ft. both sides   	Parking Lane Width 1  	7 ft.  	7 ft.   	Actual Curb Radius  	15-18 ft.  	20-24 ft.
Effective Turning Radius 2  	20-24 ft.  	20-24 ft.   	Travel way Width 3  	26 ft.  	26 ft.   	Min.
ROW 4  	50 ft.  	60 ft.   	Travel Lane Width 5  	10-12 ft.  	11-12 ft.       1 On-street parking, where required or approved by the planning commission, shall be parallel and may be placed on one or both sides as determined by the planning commission.
2 Effective turning radius is determined by adding the width of an adjacent parking lane, if present, to the corner curb radius.
Where a bulb-out is provided, the effective turning radius is the radius of the bulb-out.
3 Travel way width is measured from face-of-curb to face-of-curb.
Widths shown do not include on-street parking.
Where on-street parking, medians or additional travel lanes (including turn, acceleration, and deceleration lanes) are approved or required by the planning commission, travel way widths shall be calculated based on the minimum requirements for each cross section element to be included.
4 Additional ROW width may be required when parking lanes, medians, or additional travel lanes (including turn, acceleration or deceleration lanes) are included, or when other design elements require a greater width.
5 Lane widths shall be within the range specified, except that lanes of up to 13 ft. on local streets and 14 ft. on collectors may be required in areas of steeper topography where horizontal curves are more frequent.
This may require additional right-of-way width.
Lane striping is not required on local residential streets but may be required by the City Planner on residential collectors and for any street segment with more than two lanes.
Street Type  	Mixed-Use or Nonresidential Local  	Mixed-Use or Nonresidential Collector  	Frontage Road  	Industrial Access Road   	Posted Speed  	20—25 mph  	25—35 mph  	20—35 mph  	20—30 mph   	Design Speed  	25—30 mph  	30—40 mph  	25—40 mph  	25—35 mph   	Curb Width/Type  	18 inches; curb/gutter  	18 inches; curb/gutter  	18 inches; curb/gutter  	18 inches; curb/gutter   	Min.
Planting Strip  	4 ft.; both sides  	4 ft.; both sides  	4 ft.; developed side  	4 ft.; developed side   	Parking Lane Width 1  	7 ft.  	7 ft.  	n/a  	n/a   	Actual Curb Radius  	12—15 ft.  	15—18 ft.  	18—21 ft.  	25—30 ft.
Effective Turning Radius 2  	19—22 ft.  	22—25 ft.  	25—28 ft.  	25—30 ft.   	Min.
Travel Way 3  	26 ft.  	26 ft.  	26 ft.  	30 ft.   	Min.
ROW 4  	50 ft.  	60 ft.  	50 ft.  	60 ft.   	Travel Lane Width 5  	10—12 ft.  	11—12 ft.  	11—12 ft.  	11—13 ft.       1 On-street parking, where required or approved by the planning commission, shall be parallel and may be placed on one or both sides.
Angled parking may be permitted by the planning commission on mixed-use and nonresidential streets.
In such cases, minimum parking lane width shall be 18 ft. and the travel way and ROW widths increased accordingly.
2 Effective turning radius is determined by adding the width of an adjacent parking lane, if present, to the corner curb radius.
Where a bulb-out is provided, the effective turning radius is the radius of the bulb-out.
3 Travel way width is measured from face-of-curb to face-of-curb.
Widths shown do not include on-street parking.
Where on-street parking, medians or additional travel lanes (including turn, acceleration, and deceleration lanes) are approved or required by the planning commission, travel way widths shall be calculated based on the minimum requirements for each cross section element to be included.
4 Additional ROW width may be required when parking lanes, medians, or additional travel lanes (including turn, acceleration or deceleration lanes) are included, or when other design elements require a greater width.
5 Lane widths shall be within the range specified, except that lanes of up to 13 ft. on local streets and 14 ft. on collectors may be required in areas of steeper topography where horizontal curves are more frequent.
This may require additional right-of-way width.
Table 4-2.
Sight Distance and Street Curvature   	Street Design Speed (mph)  	Minimum centerline radius (ft.)  	Stopping Sight Distance (ft.)  	Intersection Sight Distance (ft.)   	20  	125  	115  	225   	25  	150  	155  	280   	30  	275  	200  	335   	35  	300  	250  	390   	40  	500  	305  	445   	45  	650  	360  	500   	50  	820  	425  	555       Distances are intended as a minimum guideline.
Site conditions, such as grades, traffic volumes, additional lanes, signalization types, etc., may warrant increases in desired sight distances.
4.5.8.
Alleys.
The planning commission may, at its discretion, require that alleys be provided for any or a combination of the following: alternative access to lots, placement of and access to aboveground utilities, garbage collection, loading and unloading, and mail service.
Where alleys are to be provided, they shall be designed in accordance with the requirements in table 4-3 and paved as required by the City Planner.
Where an alley is designated as a fire apparatus access road by the fire marshal, the minimum pavement width shall be 20 ft.   	Table 4-3.
Alley Requirements   	 	Min.
ROW Width  	Min.
Pavement Width  	Curb Radius at Street   	 	 	 	Local  	Collector   	Single-family  	20 ft.  	12 ft.  	10—13 ft.  	13—16 ft.
Multifamily and Nonresidential  	24 ft.  	20 ft.  	10—13 ft.  	13—16 ft.       4.5.9.
Roadside drainage facilities.
Roadside drainage facilities shall be used as needed to channel stormwater runoff away from private property and away from streets.
The type of drainage facility shall be as required in table 4-1.
1.
The planning commission may approve the use of "bioswales" as an alternative to conventional drainage techniques in accordance with § 4.10, experimental subdivisions.
2.
Owing to unique topographic and soil characteristics, roadside drainage improvements may not be required for stormwater runoff in some medium and low density residential developments.
In such cases the planning commission may modify these requirements upon a recommendation by the City Planner.
Sec.
4.6.
- Access management.
The purposes of this section are to promote the overall safety of motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians; to reduce interference with through traffic by other vehicles entering, leaving, and crossing streets; to ensure safe access to and from streets by emergency vehicles; and to preserve the traffic capacity of streets.
4.6.1.
General conditions and requirements.
The location and design of vehicular accesses from arterial, collector, and local streets proposed with a subdivision shall be specified in an access plan submitted to the subdivision official for review and recommendation to the planning commission for action.
No curbs or rights-of-way shall be cut, paved, or otherwise altered until a permit for the access has been secured from the city and/or any other governmental agency owning or controlling the street right-of-way.
4.6.2.
Approval for specific use.
Accesses existing as of the effective date of these standards are approved for the existing use only.
Accesses approved under these standards shall be approved for the use specified in the access plan.
Changes in use that would increase traffic or change the types of vehicles accessing the site shall require a new approval of access.
When a site existing at the time of these standards is redeveloped so as to create a significant increase in trip generation, the existing driveways shall be brought into conformity with these requirements.
4.6.3.
Expiration of approval.
Access plans, including related off-site street improvements, shall be constructed within two years of approval, or the approval shall terminate.
4.6.4.
Prohibition of unsafe access.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of these standards, an access, which demonstrates a potential threat or danger to the public and/or which could affect the safe, efficient flow of traffic, may be denied, based on commonly accepted and applied traffic engineering principles.
4.6.5.
Access plan.
The access plan shall be submitted as part of the preliminary plat or site plan.
4.6.6.
Traffic impact study.
The subdivision official may require a traffic impact study by an engineer, using the standard format specified by the latest edition of the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) publication Traffic Access and Impact Studies for Site Development to assess the traffic impacts of a proposed access to adjacent and nearby streets and intersections when the expected number of trips generated by the proposed use exceeds an estimated 1,000 vehicle trips per day or 100 peak hour vehicle trips per day.
In addition, the subdivision official may require a traffic impact study for sites that generate less than 1,000 vehicle trips per day, or 100 peak hour vehicle trips per day, if the sites are located at or near high-volume intersections or other locations where the use may constitute a threat or danger to the safe and efficient flow of traffic.
The subdivision official may waive this provision if a recent, valid traffic study has been completed from which needed traffic data can be extrapolated.
Unless otherwise specified by the subdivision official, the study shall address trip generation and directional distribution, traffic assignment to streets and access locations, 24-hour and a.m. and p.m. peak hour traffic forecasting (on-site and off-site), capacity analysis and level of service for adjacent streets and nearby intersections before and after the proposed full development, and recommendations for street improvements and traffic control installation and/or modifications to existing signals.
The traffic data used in the study shall be consistent with the use and density data as referenced in the latest edition of trip generation, published by ITE; current city and state traffic counts for surrounding streets; and the marketing study for the proposed use.
4.6.7.
Guidelines.
For all developments, redevelopments, and changes in use, the City Planner shall provide a recommendation to the planning commission regarding requests for access:   1.
Access to a corner lot should be permitted only from the street of lesser classification or lower average daily traffic, except as otherwise specified herein.
Where the classification of both streets is the same, access may be provided along either or both subject to table 4-4.
2.
Access to streets shall be provided to lots by means of shared access (alleys or shared driveways), frontage roads, or direct access (non-shared driveways).
The number and location of access points shall be in accordance with table 4-4 and measured as shown in figure 4.5.
3.
Frontage roads shall normally only be required along major arterials and only when they can be designed properly to provide safe and efficient access for properties.
4.
Single-family and duplex lots:   a.
Should not front on nor have direct access from a major arterial;   b.
May have frontage along minor arterials though access should generally be from a local street, frontage road or alley;   c.  May have frontage and access along a collector subject to table 4-4.
5.
For local streets, minimum separation distance may be reduced, provided that, if approved by the City Planner, the following conditions exist, based on commonly accepted and applied traffic engineering principles:   a.
Shared access is not possible;   b.
Exceptional topographic or site conditions exist at the driveway location (such as in-place utility or drainage features) which would make strict application of the standard exceptionally and/or practically difficult or unduly harsh;   c.  Application of these requirements would conflict with other provisions of these regulations; and   d.  The reduction would not constitute a threat or danger to the safe and efficient flow of traffic.
Table 4-4.
Access Management Criteria   	Use and Street Type  	Number of Accesses Permitted  	Minimum Required Spacing   	 	 	From intersection  	Between driveways on same lot  	Between driveways on separate lots   	Major Arterials regardless of use  	1 access for lots with street frontage < 600 ft. 1  	250 ft.  	200 ft.  	200 ft.   	Minor Arterials regardless of use  	1 access for lots with street frontage < 400 ft.  	200 ft.  	150 ft.  	150 ft.
Nonresidential and Multifamily uses on Collectors  	1 access for lots with street frontage < 125 ft. 1  	150 ft.  	125 ft.  	125 ft.
Single-family and duplex dwellings on Collectors  	1 access for lots with street frontage < 100 ft. 1  	125 ft. 2  	50 ft.  	25 ft.
Nonresidential and Multifamily uses on Local Streets  	1 access for lots with street frontage < 75 ft. 1  	100 ft.  	75 ft.  	75 ft.
Single-family and duplex dwellings on Local Streets  	1 access per lot with street frontage < 100 ft. or 2 access per lot with street frontage &gte;100 ft.  	75 ft. 2  	50 ft.  	10 ft.       1 Lots with greater street frontage may have a second driveway, provided that the planning commission may approve additional driveways based on trip generation or topography, and it is determined that the impact to traffic safety and movement on the street will be minimal.
2 A corner lot abutting two local streets may have a driveway with less than the above-required distance from the intersecting street, if, in the opinion of the City Planner, the driveway will not adversely affect traffic safety and movement on the streets.
4.6.8.
Access easements.
The planning commission may require shared access easements or other conditions that require multiple lots to have shared access to arterials or collector streets such as through the use of alleys, shared driveways, or marginal access roads.
Such requirements shall be considered for both residential and nonresidential subdivisions where application of the access spacing standards of this subsection would prevent direct access along arterials and collector streets.
1.
Shared access easements should be provided wherever it is possible to construct a continuous access drive or alley connecting one street to another.
In such cases, the shared access drive shall be constructed by the developer and may be considered for maintenance by the city.
Where it is not feasible to create such an easement, the planning commission may require a private access easement as described below.
2.
Where private access easements are used, the subdivision plat shall state that the transfer of lots shall be subject to the provision of such easements, which shall provide for a guaranteed, unrestricted, right of access to all other owners providing such easements and that the owners of lots subject to private access easements shall be required to execute an agreement specifying responsibility for construction and perpetual maintenance of the easements and drives in accordance with the approved access plan.
The agreement shall specify that the parties thereto shall hold the city harmless from liabilities resulting from unsafe conditions on private access easements.
Copies of the agreements shall be filed with the city clerk.
Construction on private access easements shall not be commenced until all agreements are filed.
Copies of all subsequent amendments to the agreements shall also be filed with the city clerk.
4.6.9.
Throat length.
At access points, adequate throat length shall be provided for stacking space.
Driveways for nonresidential uses should extend a minimum of 60 feet into the property from the front lot line before the edge of the driveway is crossed by an aisle or another drive and 30 feet before the edge of the driveway intersects an off-street parking space.
See figure 4.6 below.
4.6.10.
Acceleration and deceleration lanes, storage and turn lanes.
1.
Acceleration lanes for nonresidential uses.
In instances of unusual topography or for traffic safety considerations, the City Planner may require the construction of an acceleration lane for nonresidential uses.
The length of taper and total length shall be determined based on commonly accepted and applied traffic engineering principles.
2.
Deceleration lanes.
Deceleration lanes shall be required for each access to arterial or collector streets where the proposed use will increase traffic volumes on the existing street to a total in excess of 1,000 vehicle trips per day or 100 peak-hour vehicle trips per day.
a.
The deceleration lane, a minimum of 11 feet wide, measured from the face of the curb (for curb sections without a monolithic gutter), the edge of the gutter (for a monolithic curb and gutter section), or the edge of the shoulder line (for a non-curbed section to the center of the lane line), shall be constructed with the length measured from the centerline of the access point according to the criteria in table 4-5.   b.
The minimum dimensions of the deceleration lane may be reduced, provided that it is determined by the City Planner that the following conditions exist, based on commonly accepted and applied traffic engineering principles: exceptional topographic constraints or unusual site conditions at the driveway location (such as in-place utility or drainage features) which would make strict application of the standard exceptionally and/or practically difficult or unduly harsh; and the reduction would not constitute a threat or danger to the safe and efficient flow of traffic.
Table 4-5 Minimum Deceleration Lane   	Speed Limit  	Length of Taper  	Total Length   	35 mph or less  	75 ft.  	200 ft.   	40 to 45 mph  	110 ft.  	250 ft.   	50 to 55 mph  	150 ft.  	300 ft.       3.
Left-turn storage lanes.
Approval of access to an arterial or to a collector may be conditioned upon the provision of a left-turn storage lane.
The requirement and design of each storage lane, including the paved approach, bay, and departure tapers, shall be determined from the recommendations of a traffic study and approved by the City Planner based on commonly accepted and applied traffic engineering principles.
4.
Turn lanes on collectors and local streets.
Right and left-turn lanes at intersections may be required by the City Planner based upon existing or required traffic studies.
Such lanes shall be accommodated in the dedication of additional right-of-[way] widths on existing streets or in the planned right-of-way of proposed streets.
Design requirements, including width and storage length, shall be determined from the recommendations of the applicable traffic study and approved by the City Planner based on commonly accepted and applied traffic engineering principles.
Continuous two-way left-turn lanes shall be discouraged, and a median shall be provided to control access between intersections on collector streets.
Sec.
4.7.
- Blocks and lots.
4.7.1.
Blocks.
Blocks shall not be more than 1,200 feet in length.
In blocks over 800 feet in length the planning commission may require one or more public pedestrian passages with not less than a ten-foot right-of-way.
The planning commission may require a minimum block length of 400 feet.
4.7.2.
Lot arrangement.
1.
Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
2.
Each lot shall front a public street for a consecutive distance as required by the zoning ordinance.
3.
Lots shall not be platted such that they, by virtue of topography, flooding, or other environmental hazards, may not reasonably be built upon without variance from dimensional and other requirements of the zoning ordinance.
4.7.3.
Double and reverse frontage lots.
Double frontage lots in residential developments should be avoided, except where essential to separate residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
Reverse frontage lots shall have a depth of not less than 150 feet.
A planted evergreen buffer and easement at least ten feet wide, across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting the street right-of-way or other incompatible land use.
Sec.
4.8.
- Sidewalks, pedestrian facilities.
Sidewalks and pedestrian facilities shall be provided as determined by the planning commission in accordance with the following.
Where not required, such facilities may be provided at the option of the applicant, provided minimum design and construction requirements are satisfied:   4.8.1.
Guidelines.
1.
Whenever land to be subdivided embraces any part of a sidewalk or pedestrian facility so designated on a city sidewalk master plan, such facility shall be provided as part of the subdivision.
2.
Sidewalks should be provided on at least one side of streets within 1,000 ft. of an existing or planned school, library, park, place of assembly or commercial area.
3.
Sidewalks should be provided along streets that presently or in the future will contain uses that are specifically intended to serve children or the aged.
4.
Pedestrian facilities should be placed along collector streets to provide a safe walking environment, adequately separated from higher speed vehicular traffic, connecting one or more subdivisions to nearby destinations.
5.
Sidewalks shall not be required where the proposed grade of a street frontage is steeper than would be reasonable for pedestrian use.
6.
A permanently dedicated greenway, walking trail, pedestrian passage or similar pedestrian facility may be required as an alternative to sidewalks to provide pedestrian access to nearby commercial centers, schools, parks, or places of assembly.
In such cases, the pedestrian facility should be located so as to be accessible to the greatest number of users within the proposed development.
7.
Where the planning commission determines there is a need to provide pedestrian access, pedestrian passages may be required to provide access across the depth of a block that exceeds 800 feet in length.
8.
Cul-de-sacs within medium or high density residential subdivisions or districts may be required to provide a permanent pedestrian passage to nearby destinations.
Such passage may be an alternative to or in addition to sidewalks within the subdivision.
In determining whether a passage should be required, the planning commission shall consider the degree to which the passage would increase the safety and convenience of pedestrians in reaching such destinations compared to other feasible routes within the subdivision.
4.8.2.
A planting strip shall be provided between the back of curb and sidewalk, except where the planning commission determines that topography; tree preservation or conservation; right-of-way characteristics; or other conditions dictate that this requirement be modified or waived.
4.8.3.
Pedestrian ramps in accordance with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) shall be provided at intersections of streets requiring sidewalks.
4.8.4.
Pedestrian passages.
Where required, pedestrian passages shall be provided as follows:   1.
The easement or right-of-way shall not be less than ten ft. and the minimum width of the walkway shall be four ft. in residential areas and five in nonresidential areas.
The design and surfacing of the passage shall be as approved by the subdivision official.
2.
If located in a right-of-way, the passage shall be subject to acceptance by the city.
3.
If located within an easement, maintenance shall be the responsibility of the developer or property owners' association consistent with the provisions of § 4.9.4, deed restrictions and ownership.
Sec.
4.9.
- Open space and recreation in residential developments.
4.9.1.
Open space.
Planned unit developments, conservation subdivisions and multifamily housing developments shall provide open space as required the zoning ordinance and as specified herein.
Developed open space shall be designed to provide active recreational facilities to serve the residents of the development.
Undeveloped open space shall be designed to preserve important site amenities and environmentally sensitive areas, usually left in its natural state.
4.9.2.
Multifamily subdivision, size of open space.
For multifamily subdivisions, unless otherwise specified in the zoning ordinance, at least five percent of the site shall be set aside for developed and undeveloped open space, adjusted, as appropriate, for conditions such as population density, existing municipal facilities, topography, socioeconomic characteristics of the prospective population, and other appropriate site- and development-specific factors.
The area of each parcel of open space designed for active recreational purposes shall be no less than 40 ft. wide at any point or other such minimum dimensions as to be functionally useable for the type of recreation proposed.
4.9.3.
Location of open space.
Open spaces shall be convenient to the dwelling units they are intended to serve.
However, because of the possibility for noise generation, they may be sited with consideration given to such impacts on surrounding residential development.
4.9.4.
Deed restrictions and ownership.
1.
Lands dedicated for open space purposes shall contain appropriate covenants and deed restrictions approved by the city attorney ensuring that:   a.
The open space area will not be further subdivided in the future;   b.
The use of the space will continue in perpetuity for the purpose specified;   c.  Appropriate provisions will be made for the maintenance of the open space; and   d.  Common undeveloped open space shall not be turned into a commercial enterprise which charges an admittance fee.
2.
Open space ownership.
The type of ownership of land dedicated for open space purposes shall be selected by the applicant, subject to the approval of the planning commission.
Types of ownership may include, but not necessarily [be] limited to, the following:   a.
Shared, undivided interest by an owners association of all property owners in the subdivision, i.e., a homeowner, condominium, group, or cooperative association of organization;   b.
The City of Opp, subject to acceptance by the city council; or   c.  Other public or quasi-public jurisdiction, organization or agencies, subject to their acceptance.
3.
The provisions of § 5.18, ownership and maintenance of common open spaces and facilities of the zoning ordinance are hereby made a part of these regulations and shall apply throughout their jurisdiction.
Sec.
4.10.
- Experimental subdivisions.
The planning commission may waive, vary or modify the standards and requirements of these regulations if, in its judgment, an unusual experimental subdivision might prove of considerable merit toward:   4.10.1.
The use of unusual materials in constructing required improvements; or   4.10.2.
A new or untried design concept in the Opp area, which appears promising.
The planning commission may require that the applicant provide a written proposal stating the nature of the project, and a cost-benefit study on the implementation of the project.
In granting approval for experimental subdivisions, the planning commission may require such conditions as will in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied, modified, or approved.
These may include, but not be limited to: personal, surety, performance, or maintenance bonds; affidavits; covenants; or other legal instrument.
Sec.
4.11.
- Name of development.
The name of the subdivision or development must have the approval of the planning commission.
The name shall not duplicate or closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision or development in the county.
ARTICLE 5.
- IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS   Sec.
5.1.
- Utility easements.
There shall be an easement a minimum of ten ft. wide along the front and rear lot line of each lot for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water, and heat mains, telephone lines, television cables, and/or other utility lines and drainage ditches.
The planning commission may also require easements along side lot lines.
If the utilities are underground, the utility plans must include design location for all utilities, including light poles and street lights.
Final plat approval signatures must include all utilities, including cable and telephone.
Although not mandatory, it is recommended that all utilities be installed in the required rear utility easements.
Sec.
5.2.
- Monuments.
Monuments, the type of which shall be in accordance with current surveying practice, shall be placed at all points where the street ROW lines intersect the exterior boundaries of the subdivision, and at all angle points of curves in each street.
All lot corners shall be marked with reinforcing bar not less than one-half inches in diameter and 18 inches long.
All monuments and markers shall be set flush with the finished grade and detectable with conventional instruments for finding ferrous or magnetic objects.
Sec.
5.3.
- Streets.
5.3.1.
A geotechnical investigation of soil conditions shall be required for all streets serving nonresidential uses and as may otherwise be required by the City Planner.
Such report shall be prepared by a registered geotechnical engineer and shall ensure adequate bearing capacity and quality of subgrade materials.
5.3.2.
Grading.
All streets and alleys shall be graded to the required cross section and in accordance with city specifications.
Except as specified otherwise by the City Planner, where streets are to be constructed under or adjacent to existing major electric transmission lines, the nearest edge of the roadway surface shall be set back from any transmission line structure as may be required by the electric utility provider, and all grading for the street shall be done in a manner that will not disturb the structure or result in erosion endangering the structure.
The clearance from the street to the nearest conductor of electricity shall meet the requirements of the National Electric Safety Code.
1.
Preparation.
Before grading is started, the entire right-of-way area shall be first cleared of all stumps, roots, brush, and other objectionable materials and all trees not intended for preservation.
2.
Cuts.
All tree stumps, boulders and other obstructions shall be removed to a depth of two feet below the subgrade.
Rock, when encountered, shall be scarified to a depth of 12 inches below the subgrade.
This provision applies to the roadway and not necessarily to the entire right-of-way width.
5.3.3.
Subgrade.
1.
All subgrade shall be cut to the grade as shown on the plan and profile.
2.
Soil deeper than six inches below subgrade shall be compacted to 95 percent standard proctor density.
The top six inches shall be compacted to 100 percent standard proctor density.
3.
A test shall be made on all fill sections by a testing agency satisfactory to the City Planner.
Additional tests shall be performed at the rate of not less than one test per 500 linear feet of street.
4.
Tests shall be performed on all lifts.
5.
The top six inches shall be modified, with the work being performed under section 230, Roadbed processing, of the ALDOT standard specifications.
It shall be compacted to 100 percent standard proctor density for the full width of the roadway section.
6.
The road bed shall be proof rolled after placement of final subgrade and the final base layer.
7.
A copy of all lab reports shall be submitted to the City Planner.
5.3.4.
Base material, paving.
1.
Base.
Base course shall meet the requirements for crushed aggregate as set forth in section 301, Soil, soil aggregate, and aggregate, base and subbases, Type 825 A or B, plant mixed with water, of the ALDOT standard specifications.
Base course shall have a minimum thickness of eight inches for local streets and ten inches for major, commercial and industrial streets compacted thickness and extend 12 inches outside of curb sections.
The density requirements for compaction shall be in accordance with section 306, Density requirements for compaction, of the ALDOT standard specifications.
The project engineer may submit an alternate base design method for approval by the City Planner.
Design should be based on a proven and accepted engineering test or method.
2.
Roadway pavement.
All streets shall be paved and comply with the following:   a.
Prior to the placement of pavement, a bituminous treatment A (Prime) shall be placed in accordance with section 401, Bituminous surface treatments, of the ALDOT standard specifications and be approved by the City Planner.
b.  Bituminous pavement requirements shall be a minimum of 225 pounds per square yard (two-inch depth) of bituminous concrete binder and 100 pounds per square yard (one-inch depth) of bituminous concrete wearing surface.
All design mixes shall meet the requirements of section 424, Superpave bituminous concrete base, binder, and wearing surface layers, of the ALDOT standard specifications.
5.3.5.
Fill.
All suitable material for the roadway cuts may be used in the construction of fills, approaches, or at other places as needed.
Excess materials, including organic materials, soft clays, etc., shall be removed from the development site.
The fill shall be spread in layers not to exceed eight inches loose depth, and compacted by a sheep's foot roller.
The filling of utility trenches and other areas not accessible to a roller shall be mechanically tamped.
Compaction test results must be provided to the streets superintendent before paving can begin.
5.3.6.
Fire apparatus access roads.
Any street, alley or other access designated by the fire marshal as a fire apparatus access road shall meet the load requirements of the fire code.
Such shall be certified by the project engineer.
5.3.7.
Culverts and bridges.
Culverts, bridges and all materials shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the ALDOT Standard Specifications.
5.3.8.
Sidewalks and pedestrian passages.
1.
Where required, all sidewalks shall be four inches thick with a minimum width of four feet.
Sidewalks shall generally run parallel to the street, however, the planning commission may approve an alternate location to preserve topographical or natural features or to provide visual interest, if the developer shows that an alternate arrangement provides safe and convenient circulation.
2.
Pedestrian passages, where required, shall be designed and constructed in a manner acceptable to the City Planner.
Sec.
5.4.
- Storm drainage.
An adequate drainage system, including necessary curbs and gutters, pipes, culverts, drop inlets, intersectional drains, bridges, etc., shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water in accordance with table 5-1.
See appendix for specifications.
Table 5-1.
Drainage Design Criteria   	Structure Type  	Flood Event  	Overtopping Analysis   	Bridge  	100-yr.
Yes   	Roadway Culvert  	25-yr.
Yes   	Open Channel  	25-yr. 100-yr.  	Floodplain delineation   	Storm Sewer System Arterials, Collectors Local, Frontage  	25-yr. 10-yr.  	Max.
Spread -½ lane + gutter Max.
Spread -½ lane + gutter   	Detention/Retention Primary, Secondary  	25-yr. 100-yr.  	      5.4.1.
Water will be taken from the street via drop inlets in accordance with city specifications.
In no case will the water be allowed to drain across the sidewalk.
The exposed ends of all drain tile shall be finished with concrete headwalls.
5.4.2.
For curb and gutter systems, drop inlets shall be spaced frequently enough to adequately remove water from the street.
The location and design must be approved by the planning commission.
5.4.3.
Corrugated steel pipe shall not be used in any swale, driveway or other stormwater drainage culvert.
All street cross drains shall be reinforced concrete pipe.
All other pipes installed in any swale, driveway, or stormwater drainage culvert shall be reinforced concrete pipe, HDPE type "S" drainage pipe or corrugated aluminum pipe as approved by the City Planner and streets superintendent.
All pipe shall meet applicable AASHTO requirements.
Installation shall be in accordance with city specifications.
Prior to installation, approval shall be obtained from the streets superintendent and City Planner.
Sec.
5.5.
- Utilities.
5.5.1.
Water supply system.
1.
The water supply system must be connected to the community water supply system and shall be designed and constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve required uses for all lots shown on the subdivision plat or development site plan, including reasonably anticipated future needs.
The system shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the Opp Utilities Standard Water Specifications and regulatory requirements, and the design and installation must be approved by the Opp Utilities Board.
2.
Fire hydrants.
Fire hydrants shall be installed along each street at intervals of 500 feet, or at the ends and center, of each block and tied to the water system.
Dwellings shall not be located more than 400 ft. from the nearest fire hydrant and nonresidential buildings shall not be located more than 250 ft. from the nearest fire hydrant.
The water supply and pressure shall be sufficient to adequately serve the potential needs of the intended land use and have the approval of the Opp Waterworks, Sewer, and Gas Board and the Opp Fire Department.
5.5.2.
Sanitary sewer.
1.
The sanitary sewer system must be connected to the community sanitary sewerage system and shall be designed and constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve required uses for all lots shown on the subdivision plat or development site plan, including reasonably anticipated future needs.
The system shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the Opp Utilities Standard Sanitary Sewer Specifications and regulatory requirements, and the design and installation must be approved by the Opp Utilities Board.
2.
Where lots cannot be economically connected to the Opp Utilities Board's sanitary sewerage system, individual on-site wastewater disposal systems shall be permitted, provided the disposal plan for each lot has written approval of the Covington County health department, as evidenced by the health department official's signature on the final plat.
5.5.3.
Natural gas system.
When gas mains are connected with the community natural gas distribution system, the system shall be designed and constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve required uses for all lots shown on the subdivision plat or development site plan.
The system shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the  Southeast Gas Board Standard Natural Gas Specifications and regulatory requirements, and the design and installation must be approved by the Southeast Gas.
5.5.4.
Electricity.
1.
The applicant is encouraged to place all electrical lines under ground and utilize pad mounted transformers.
All plans for electrical utilities must be approved by the Opp Utilities Board.
2.
Street lighting.
For reasons of safety and convenience the applicant shall provide street lights at each street intersection.
Where blocks exceed 800 feet in length, the planning commission may require additional lighting.
All street lighting plans must be approved by the Opp Utilities Board and City Planner.
Sec.
5.6.
- Signs.
5.6.1.
Street name signs.
All streets shall be designated by name on a metal street sign post, in accordance with city specifications, with name plates of metal set one above the other with a minimum clearance of seven feet from grade to the lowest edge of the sign.
The post shall be so located as to be visible for both pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
At four-way intersections, two street sign posts shall be located diagonally across the intersection from each other.
One street sign post shall be required at "T" street intersections.
5.6.2.
Traffic control signs.
The developer shall install, at his cost, all necessary traffic control signs and devices as shown on the approved preliminary plat, which shall be in compliance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices as adopted by the State of Alabama.
ARTICLE 6.
- SITE DESIGN STANDARDS   For developments subject to site plan review, the following standards shall be considered by the planning commission:   Sec.
6.1.
- General site design standards.
6.1.1.
Access management.
Generally, driveways should be fewer and farther apart on major streets while a larger number of driveways spaced more closely together are more tolerable on local streets.
1.
Site plans shall conform with the access management requirements in § 4.6, access management.
2.
Shared driveways, alleys and cross access drives are encouraged where appropriate.
3.
For corner lots, access should be provided along the street of lesser classification and any driveways should be located as far from the intersection as possible.
6.1.2.
Sight lines.
Structures and landscaping should be placed to ensure clear sight lines for motorists that allow safe ingress and egress to properties and safe movements within the site.
6.1.3.
Building location.
1.
Buildings should be located on site in keeping with adjacent buildings on the same side of the street and to create useable exterior spaces.
2.
Buildings should be oriented such that entrances face the street.
6.1.4.
Parking location.
1.
Parking areas for multifamily developments should be located internally to the site rather than between buildings and the street.
2.
Large surface parking lots should be broken up into multiple spaces through landscaping.
3.
Some parking should be placed to the sides and rear of the building to avoid oversized parking in front of the building.
This strategy can be helpful in matching shallower setbacks of adjacent buildings.
6.1.5.
Storage, service and loading areas.
1.
Storage, service and loading areas should be located so as to minimize their visibility to the public and/or shall be screened as required by the planning commission.
2.
Storage, service and loading areas should be located to so as not to disrupt the efficient flow of on-site and off-site traffic.
6.1.6.
Refuse collection areas (multifamily and nonresidential).
1.
Refuse collection areas should be located to minimize their visibility to the public and/or screened as required by the planning commission in accordance with the zoning ordinance.
2.
Refuse collection areas shall be designed and of a size to contain all refuse (and recycling, if applicable) generated on-site and deposited between collections.
6.1.7.
Mechanical and electrical equipment.
Mechanical and electrical equipment should be located to minimize their visibility to the public and/or screened as required by the planning commission.
Sec.
6.2.
- Landscaping standards.
6.2.1.
Buffering.
Buffers shall be provided as required in the zoning ordinance wherever a use of higher intensity is developed abutting a use of lower intensity (i.e., a commercial use is developed next to a residential use or a multifamily use is developed next to a single-family use).
6.2.2.
Parking lot landscaping.
Landscaping shall be provided within and at the perimeter of parking lots and other vehicular areas as required by § 11.2, landscaping, for vehicular areas of the zoning ordinance.
6.2.3.
Screening.
Location on-site, plant materials, fences, walls, berms or a combination thereof shall be used to visually screen certain site elements and activities, including, but not limited to outdoor storage and garbage collection areas, from public view as required in § 11.3, screening, of the zoning ordinance.
ARTICLE 7.
- VARIANCES, ENFORCEMENT, LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS   Sec.
7.1.
- Variances.
Where an applicant can show that a provision of these regulations would cause an unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to and where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, in the opinion of the planning commission a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provision, the planning commission may authorize a variance.
Any variance thus authorized is required to be entered in writing in the official minutes of the planning commission and the reason which justified the departure to be set forth.
In determining whether a modification, reduction or waiver of a requirement of these regulations is warranted, the planning commission must find that all of the following criteria are met:   7.1.1.
Owing to extraordinary circumstances, literal enforcement of the provisions of this resolution will result in undesirable characteristics, including, but not limited to, poor traffic movement, unsuitable lot design, or unnecessarily expensive utility extensions.
7.1.2.
That the variance, if granted, will not cause any off-site problems such as traffic, utilities, drainage, water, and sanitation on other properties.
7.1.3.
That the variance, if granted, will not substantially or permanently injure any adjacent conforming property.
7.1.4.
That the variance, if granted, is the minimum variance and the least modification that will afford the relief sought.
7.1.5.
That the variance, if granted, will be in harmony with the spirit of these regulations and will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare.
Sec.
7.2.
- Transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions, penalties.
Whoever, being the agent of the owner or owner of any land located within a subdivision, transfers or sells or agrees to sell any land by reference to or exhibition of or by other use of a part of a subdivision, before such plat has been approved by the planning commission and recorded in the office of the probate judge, shall forfeit and pay a penalty of $100.00 for each lot or parcel so transferred or sold or agreed or negotiated to be sold.
The description of such lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties or from the remedies herein provided.
The city may enjoin such transfer or sale or agreement by action for injunction brought in any court of equity jurisdiction or may recover the same penalty by a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Sec.
7.3.
- Fees, fines.
7.3.1.
Fees.
All applicants shall pay a $150.00 fee to the City of Opp at the time of submission of any request for minor plat, preliminary plat, or final approval of a proposed subdivision.
7.3.2.
Fines.
Any person violating any provisions of this regulation shall be charged a fine, upon conviction, of not more than $100.00 and court costs for each offense.
Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Sec.
7.4.
- Conflict with other laws.
Wherever the requirements of this regulation conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, the most restrictive, or that imposing higher standards, shall govern.
Sec.
7.5.
- Validity.
Each phrase, sentence, paragraph, section or other provision of this regulation is severable from all other such phrases, sentences, paragraph, sections and provisions.
Should any phrase, sentence, paragraph, section or provision of these regulations be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect any other portion or provision of these regulations.
Sec.
7.6.
- Effective date.
These regulations shall take effect and be in force from and after the date of adoption.
Sample Certificates and Acknowledgments   Surveyor's Certificate.
Sketch Plan Certificate (City Planner).
Site Assessment Certificate (City Planner).
Certificate of Approval, preliminary plat (subdivision official).
Certificate of Approval, preliminary plat (planning commission).
Certificate of Approval, preliminary plat (City Planner).
Certificate of Approval, preliminary plat (streets superintendent).
Certificate of Approval of Water Distribution System, preliminary plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board).
Certificate of Approval of Sewer Distribution System, preliminary plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board).
Certificate of Approval of Gas Distribution System, preliminary plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board).
Certificate of Approval of Electric Distribution System, preliminary plat  (Opp Utilities Board).
Certificate of Approval, preliminary plat (county health department).
Dedication.
Notary's Acknowledgment.
Notary's Acknowledgment.
Mortgage Holder's Certificate.
Certificate of Approval, final plat (planning commission).
Certificate of Approval, final plat (City Planner).
Certificate of Approval, final plat (streets superintendent).
Certificate of Approval, final plat (Opp Utilities Board).
Certificate of Approval, final plat (Southeast Gas).
Certificate of Approval, final plat (county health department).
Subdivision Procedural Flowchart   PLAT CHECKLISTS   Minor Subdivision Plat Checklist.
Preliminary Plat Checklist.
Final Plat Checklist.
SPECIFICATIONS   Standard Street Cross Sections (local street, collector, industrial access road).
Surveyor's Certificate   Surveyor's Certificate and Description of Land Platted   State of Alabama   County of Covington   I, (name of surveyor), an Alabama registered Surveyor, hereby certify that I have surveyed the property of the (name of company of proprietor), a (corporation or proprietor), situated in the city of Opp, Covington County, Alabama and described as follows:   (Insert Legal Description)   And that the plat or map contained hereon is a true and correct map, meeting the current standards of practice set forth by the Alabama State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and land surveyors, showing the subdivision into which the property described is divided giving the length and bearings of the boundaries of each lot and its number and showing the streets, alleys and public grounds and giving the bearings, length, width, and name of the streets, said map further shows the relation of the land so platted to the Government Survey, and that permanent monuments have been placed at points marked thus (0) as hereon shown.
WITNESS my hand this ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________  	____________   	(Name of Surveyor)  	Registration Number       Sketch Plan Certificate (City Planner).
The sketch plan for ____________ has been reviewed by the City Planner for the city of Opp.
____________  	____________   	Date  	City Planner   	 	City of Opp, Alabama       Site Assessment Certificate.
I, ____________ , the project engineer, do hereby certify that the information shown hereon is complete and in compliance with all applicable regulations of the City of Opp, Alabama to the best of my knowledge.
____________  	____________   	Date  	Project Engineer       Certificate of Approval, preliminary plat (subdivision official).
In that all the requirements of Preliminary Approval have been fulfilled, this subdivision plat was given Preliminary Approval by the Opp planning commission on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Subdivision Official   City of Opp, Alabama   Certificate of Approval, preliminary plat (planning commission)   In that all the requirements of Preliminary Approval have been fulfilled, this subdivision plat was given Preliminary Approval by the Opp planning commission on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
Preliminary Approval does not constitute approval of the final plat.
____________   Chairperson   Opp Planning Commission   Certificate of Approval, preliminary plat (City Planner)   In that all the requirements of Preliminary Approval have been fulfilled, this subdivision plat was given Preliminary Approval by the Opp planning commission on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   City Planner   City of Opp, Alabama   Certificate of Approval, preliminary plat (streets superintendent)   In that all the requirements of Preliminary Approval have been fulfilled, this subdivision plat was given Preliminary Approval by the Opp planning commission on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Streets Superintendent   City of Opp, Alabama   Certificate of Approval of Water Distribution System, preliminary plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board)   The undersigned, as authorized by the Opp Utilities Board, hereby approved the water distribution system design as shown on this preliminary plat on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Opp Utilties Certificate of Approval of Sewer Distribution System, preliminary plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board)   The undersigned, as authorized by the Opp Utilities Board, hereby approved the sewer distribution system design as shown on this preliminary plat on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Opp Utilities Certificate of Approval of Gas Distribution System, preliminary plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board)   The undersigned, as authorized by the Opp Utilities Board, hereby approved the gas distribution system design as shown on this preliminary plat on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Opp Utilities Certificate of Approval of Electric Distribution System, preliminary plat (Opp Utilities Board)   The undersigned, as authorized by the Opp Utilities Board, hereby approved the electric distribution system design as shown on this preliminary plat on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Opp Utilities Board   Certificate for Lots with On-Site Septic Systems, preliminary plat (county health department)   The lot(s) on this plat are subject to approval or deletion by the Covington County health department.
The approvals may contain certain conditions pertaining to the onsite wastewater treatment system(s) that could restrict the use of the lot(s) or obligate owners to special maintenance and reporting requirements.
These conditions are on file with said health department and are made a part of this plat as if set out hereon.
The undersigned, as authorized by the Covington County health department, Alabama, hereby approved the onsite wastewater treatment system for this plat, on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Health Officer, Covington County, Alabama   Dedication   I/We (Land Owner or developer, address), as proprietor(s), have caused the land embraced in the within plat to be surveyed, laid out and platted to be known as (Subdivision Name), a part of (Section Call Out), City of Opp, Covington County, Alabama, and that the (Streets, Drives, Alleys, etc.)
as shown on said plat are hereby dedicated to the use of the public.
Signed and sealed in the presence of:   	____________  	____________   	Witness  	Property Owner   	____________  	____________   	Witness  	Property Owner       Notary's Acknowledgment   Acknowledgment   State of Alabama   County of Covington   I, ____________ , a Notary Public in and for said County, in said State, hereby certify that (individual's name), whose name as (title) of the (corporation name), is signed to the foregoing instrument, and who is known to me, acknowledged before me on this day that, being informed of the contents of the instrument, he as such officer and with full authority, executed the same voluntarily for and as the act of said corporation.
GIVEN under my hand and official seal this ____________ , 20 ____________ .
NOTARY PUBLIC   Notary's Acknowledgment   Acknowledgment   State of Alabama   County of Covington   I, ____________ , a Notary Public in and for said County, in said State, hereby certify that (owner's name), whose name is signed to the foregoing instrument, and who is known to me, acknowledged before me on this day that, being informed of the contents of the instrument, executed the same voluntarily.
GIVEN under my hand and official seal this ____________ , 20 ____________ .
NOTARY PUBLIC   Mortgage Holder's Certificate   We, (name of institution and location), by (name and title of officer), holders of a mortgage on the above described property do hereby consent to the plat of (name of plat), in the City of Opp, Covington County, Alabama on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
(Name of Institution and Location)   ____________   Name and Title, Mortgagee Representative   Certificate of Approval, final plat (planning commission)   In that all the requirements of final approval have been fulfilled, this subdivision plat was given final approval for recording of same in the Probate Office of Covington County, Alabama by the Opp planning commission on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Chairperson   Opp Planning Commission   Certificate of Approval, final plat (City Planner)   In that all the requirements of final approval have been fulfilled, this subdivision plat was given final approval for recording of same in the Probate Office of Covington County, Alabama by the Opp planning commission on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   City Planner   City of Opp, Alabama   Certificate of Approval, final plat (streets superintendent)   In that all the requirements of final approval have been fulfilled, this subdivision plat was given final approval for recording of same in the Probate Office of Covington County, Alabama by the Opp planning commission on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Streets Superintendent   City of Opp, Alabama   Certificate of Approval, final plat (Opp Utilities Board)   The undersigned, as authorized by the Opp Utilities Board, hereby approved this plat for recording of same in the Probate Office of Covington County, Alabama on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Opp Utilities Board   Certificate of Approval of Water System, final plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board)   The undersigned, as authorized by the Opp Utilities Board, hereby approved the water distribution system for this plat for recording of same in the Probate Office of Covington County, Alabama on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Opp Utilities Certificate of Approval of Sewer System, final plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board)   The undersigned, as authorized by the Opp Utilities Board, hereby approved the sewer distribution system for this plat for recording of same in the Probate Office of Covington County, Alabama on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Opp Utilities Certificate of Approval, final plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board)   The undersigned, as authorized by the Opp Utilities Board, hereby approved the gas distribution system for this plat for recording of same in the Probate Office of Covington County, Alabama on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Opp Utilities Certificate for Lots with On-Site Septic Systems, final plat (county health department)   The lot(s) on this plat are subject to approval or deletion by the Covington County health department.
The approvals may contain certain conditions pertaining to the onsite wastewater treatment system(s) that could restrict the use of the lot(s) or obligate owners to special maintenance and reporting requirements.
These conditions are on file with said health department and are made a part of this plat as if set out hereon.
The undersigned, as authorized by the Covington County health department, Alabama, hereby approved the within plat for recording of same in the Probate Office of Covington County, Alabama, on ____________ , 20 ____________ .
____________   Health Officer, Covington County, Alabama   Subdivision and Site Plan Procedure Flowchart     MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT CHECKLIST   □  Name of subdivision.
□  Graphic scale (not less than on inch equals 100 feet).
□  North point.
□  Date.
□  Total acreage.
□  Name, address and seal/registration no.
of surveyor.
□  Location (legal description, lot, block, subdivision name, parcel numbers, deed book and page).
□  Vicinity map.
□  Name of adjacent subdivisions.
□  Name, address and deed book and page of record of owners and adjoining owners.
□  Name, address of agents, if applicable.
□  Location of existing property lines.
□  Location and width of existing rights-of-way and easements.
□  Name, location and widths of existing streets, alleys and driveways.
□  Length (1/100 ft.) and bearing (one-tenth sec.
of arc) of exterior boundaries.
□  Location of existing buildings, watercourses, railroads, sewers, bridges, culverts, drain pipes, water mains (on-site and adjoining).
□  Dimensions and area of lot lines, reservations, open spaces and parks.
□  Approximate radii, central angle, arc distance, chord lengths and points of tangency of all curves.
□  Restrictions and proposed use of lots (as required).
□  Certificate of approval (water, sewer, gas, electric, and health dept.
if not on sanitary sewer).
□  Additional certificates as required.
□  Present and proposed zoning (as applicable).
□  Regulatory floodplain boundaries with FIRM panel number and effective date.
□  Flood study with floodway and base flood elevations (if in Special Flood Hazard District A).
□  Minimum finished floor elevations for all lots in 100-year floodplain.
□  Inscription: "NOT FOR FINAL RECORDING" (except for combined Preliminary/final approval).
PRELIMINARY PLAT CHECKLIST   □  Name of subdivision.
□  Graphic scale.
□  North point.
□  Date.
□  Total acreage.
□  Name, address and seal/registration no.
of surveyor.
□  Location (legal description, lot, block, subdivision name, parcel numbers, deed book and page).
□  Vicinity Map.
□  Name of adjacent subdivisions.
□  Name, address and deed book and page of record of owners and adjoining owners.
□  Name, address of agents, if applicable.
□  Topography (USGS, geodetic Survey Sea Level Datum, etc.).
□  Five foot intervals (two foot may be required).
□  Source of Topography.
□  Location of existing property lines.
□  Location and width of existing rights-of-way and easements.
□  Name, location and widths of existing streets, alleys and driveways.
□  Length (1/100 ft.) and bearing (one-tenth sec.
of arc) of exterior boundaries.
□  Location of existing buildings, watercourses, railroads, sewers, bridges, culverts, drain pipes, water mains (on-site and adjoining).
□  Location and dimensions of proposed rights-of-way, streets, alleys, easements; lot and block numbers.
□  Dimensions and area of lot lines, reservations, open spaces and parks.
□  Street profiles (natural and finished grade; scale 1=100' H, 1'=10' V as required).
□  Street cross sections.
□  Approximate radii, central angle, arc distance, chord lengths and points of tangency of all curves.
□  Proposed utility layout.
□  Restrictions and proposed use of lots (as required).
□  Certificate of approval (water, sewer, gas, electric, and health dept.
if not on sanitary sewer).
□  Additional certificates as required.
□  Present and proposed zoning (as applicable).
□  Minimum building front, rear and side yard setback lines.
□  Drainage plan.
□  Regulatory floodplain boundaries with FIRM panel number and effective date.
□  Flood study with floodway and base flood elevations (if in Special Flood Hazard District A).
□  Minimum finished floor elevations for all lots in 100-year floodplain.
□  Inscription: "NOT FOR FINAL RECORDING."
FINAL PLAT CHECKLIST   □  Name of subdivision.
□  Graphic scale.
□  North point.
□  Date.
□  Total acreage.
□  Name, address and seal/registration no.
of surveyor.
□  Location (legal description, lot, block, subdivision name, parcel numbers, deed book and page).
□  Name of adjacent subdivisions.
□  Name, address and deed book and page of record of owners.
□  Name, address of agents, if applicable.
□  Bearings and distances to nearest street lines, benchmarks, monuments (at least three).
□  Boundary lines from survey (to one sec.
; error closure 1:10,000).
□  Location and dimensions of rights-of-way, streets, alleys, including on adjoining tracts.
□  Dimensions and area of lot lines, reservations, open spaces and parks.
□  Street centerlines with angles of deflection and intersection, radii, lengths, tangents.
□  Dimensions of lot lines (to 1:100 ft. and bearings); lot and block numbers.
□  Location, dimension and purpose of easements, reservations, common or public use spaces.
□  Location, material and description of monuments.
□  Statement of covenants (on or attached to plat).
□  Regulatory floodplain boundaries with FIRM panel number and effective date.
□  Flood study with floodway and base flood elevations (if in Special Flood Hazard District A).
□  Minimum finished floor elevations for all lots in 100-year floodplain.
□  Dedication for public lands.
□  Notary's Acknowledgment (where developer and owner are not the same).
□  Certificate of Approval of final plat (planning commission).
□  Certificate of Approval of final plat (City Planner).
□  Certificate of Approval of final plat (streets superintendent).
□  Certificate of Approval of final plat (Opp Opp Utilities BoardBoard).
□  Certificates of Approval of final plat (waterworks, sewer and gas board).
□  Certificate of Approval (county health department).
STANDARD STREET CROSS SECTIONS          STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE   This table shows the location within the Code, either in the text or notes following the text, of references to the Code of Alabama, 1975.
Code of Ala. 1975  Section  	Section   this Code   	1-1-1 et seq.
1-2   	1-1-14  	1-3   	1-1-15  	1-3   	3-1-1 et seq.
Ch.
6 (note)   	3-5-14  	Ch.
6 (note)   	3-7A-1 et seq.
Ch.
6, Art.
II   	4-4-1 et seq.
App.
B, intro.
¶   	4-6-1—4-6-15  	App.
B, intro.
¶   	4-6-1 et seq.
App.
B (note)   	—  	App.
B, intro.
¶   	5-19A-1  	22-260   	7-2-104  	22-257   	11-19-1 et seq.
16-20   	11-40-1 et seq.
Ch.
2 (note)   	11-40-30 et seq.
28-2 (note)   	11-43-6 et seq.
2-77   	11-43-40 et seq.
Ch.
2, Art.
II   	11-43-40  	2-46   	11-43-49  	2-47   	11-43-50  	2-45   	11-43-52  	Ch.
2, Art.
II,  Div.
2   	11-43-59  	Ch.
8 (note)   	—  	Ch.
14 (note)   	11-45-1 et seq.
16-20   	11-45-7  	1-1   	11-45-8  	Ch.
8, Art.
II   	—  	App.
A, § 12.10   	11-45-9  	1-7   	11-46-1 et seq.
Ch.
10 (note)   	11-46-2  	10-1   	11-46-24(b)  	10-2   	11-47-110  	Ch.
6 (note)   	11-47-117 et seq.
Ch.
28 (note)   	11-47-130  	Ch.
12 (note)   	—  	Ch.
18 (note)   	11-47-131  	Ch.
12 (note)   	—  	Ch.
18 (note)   	11-51-44  	22-193   	11-51-90  	22-1   	—  	22-85   	11-51-90(a)(1)  	Ch.
22, Art.
VII   	11-51-90(a)(2)  	22-86   	11-51-90.2  	22-182   	11-51-91  	22-27   	—  	22-204   	11-51-122  	22-183   	11-51-129  	22-182   	11-51-150 et seq.
22-195   	11-51-180 et seq.
22-182   	11-51-192  	22-200   	11-51-200  	22-57   	—  	22-148   	11-51-202  	22-60   	—  	22-150   	11-51-206  	22-58   	—  	22-60   	—  	22-149, 22-150   	11-52-1 et seq.
16-20   	—  	App.
A, § 1.3   	—  	App.
C, § 1.2   	11-52-8  	App.
C, § 2.2   	11-52-30—11-52-36  	App.
C, § 2.1   	11-52-30—11-52-54  	App.
C, § 1.2   	11-52-31  	App.
C, § 3.5   	11-52-32  	App.
C, § 3.5   	11-52-70 et seq.
App.
A (note)   	11-67-80 et seq.
30-1   	11-52-80  	App.
A, § 13.1   	11-52-81  	App.
A, § 13.1   	12-14-1 et seq.
Ch.
26 (note)   	12-14-14  	26-4, 26-5   	12-14-30 et seq.
26-2   	12-14-33  	26-3   	13A-1-2  	24-1   	13A-7-22  	1-7   	13A-7-23  	1-7   	13A-7-29  	Ch.
30 (note)   	13A-8-5  	1-7   	13A-8-9  	1-7   	13A-8-10.3  	1-7   	13A-8-19  	1-7   	13A-8-23  	1-7   	13A-8-71  	1-7   	13A-8-72  	1-7   	13A-8-102  	1-7   	13A-8-140—13A-8-144  	1-7   	13A-9-75  	1-7   	13A-9-91  	1-7   	13A-11-230 et seq.
Ch.
6, Art.
II   	13A-11-240 et seq.
Ch.
6, Art.
II   	13A-11-260 et seq.
Ch.
6 (note)   	15-23-17  	26-6   	20-3A-20.1  	4-37   	22-1-1 et seq.
Ch.
12 (note)   	—  	Ch.
18 (note)   	22-15A-10  	18-1   	22-27-1 et seq.
Ch.
30 (note)   	22-27-47  	Ch.
30 (note)   	24-5-30 et seq.
App.
A, § 6.7   	28-1-1 et seq.
Ch.
4 (note)   	28-1-5  	Ch.
4 (note)   	28-3-1  	4-4   	28-3-190 et seq.
4-72   	28-3A-1 et seq.
4-67   	28-3A-1  	4-72   	28-3A-6  	4-72   	28-3A-7 et seq.
4-72   	28-3A-8—28-3A-11  	4-72   	28-3A-11 et seq.
Ch.
4, Art.
III   	28-3A-15  	4-72   	28-3A-17  	4-72   	28-3A-20  	4-72   	28-3A-25(a)(3)  	Ch.
4 (note)   	28-3A-25(a)(18)  	Ch.
4 (note)   	28-7-1 et seq.
4-72   	28-10-1 et seq.
4-74   	tit.
32  	Ch.
34 (note)   	32-1-4  	26-10   	32-5A-191  	1-7   	32-6-19  	34-2   	32-13-1 et seq.
28-1   	32-13-1—32-13-8  	34-2   	32-13-1  	34-88   	34-8-1 et seq.
Ch.
8 (note)   	34-14A-1 et seq.
Ch.
8 (note)   	36-19-1 et seq.
Ch.
14 (note)   	36-25A-1 et seq.
2-47   	—  	2-54   	—  	2-57   	tit.
40  	22-201   	40-2A-3  	22-182   	40-12-224  	22-203   	40-21-50 et seq.
22-182   	40-21-80 et seq.
22-182   	40-23-1 et seq.
22-59   	—  	22-113, 22-114   	—  	22-151   	—  	22-284, 22-285   	40-23-25  	22-203   	40-23-60 et seq.
22-61   	40-23-82  	22-203   	40-26-1 et seq.
Ch.
22, Art.
V   	—  	Ch.
22, Art.
X   	41-9-160 et seq.
Ch.
8 (note)   	41-9-166  	16-20   	45-36A-100  	Ch.
4 (note)   	45-36A-100.01  	Ch.
4 (note)   	45-36A-101  	10-1   	45-36A-102  	Ch.
20 (note)   	—  	20-4   	46-36A-102  	20-2       Page 2 of 2
    Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   1   ZONING ORDINANCE                     CITY OF MOULTRIE      GEORGIA           Adoption October 17, 1972      Effective November 6, 1972                Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   2   CONTENTS   TITLE ................................................................................................................................ 5   PREAMBLE ...................................................................................................................... 5   ARTICLE I ........................................................................................................................ 6   SHORT TITLE ............................................................................................................. 6   ARTICLE II ...................................................................................................................... 6   DEFINITIONS .............................................................................................................. 6   ARTICLE III ................................................................................................................... 22   ZONING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ............................................................. 22   ARTICLE IV ................................................................................................................... 27   GENERAL PROVISIONS ......................................................................................... 27   ARTICLE V .................................................................................................................... 59   NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES .................................................... 59   ARTICLE VI ................................................................................................................... 63   PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS ..................................................... 63   ARTICLE VII ................................................................................................................. 72   R-1A, R-1B, AND R-1C .............................................................................................. 72   SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS .................................................... 72   ARTICLE VIII ................................................................................................................ 75   R-2, TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ................................................... 75   ARTICLE IX ................................................................................................................... 76   R-3, MULTIPLE DWELLING RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ................................. 76   ARTICLE IX-A ............................................................................................................... 79   ARTICLE IX-B ............................................................................................................... 80   R-CD, CONDOMINIUM DISTRICT ....................................................................... 80   ARTICLE X .................................................................................................................... 86   R-PUD RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT........... 86   ARTICLE X-A ................................................................................................................ 94   R-TH, TOWN HOUSE DISTRICT ........................................................................... 94   ARTICLE X-B .............................................................................................................. 100   MULTIPLE USE DISTRICT .................................................................................. 100   ARTICLE XI ................................................................................................................. 103        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   3   C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT ................................................... 103   ARTICLE XII ............................................................................................................... 108   C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT ................................................................. 108   ARTICLE XIII .............................................................................................................. 113   C-3, COMMERCIAL DISTRICT ........................................................................... 113   ARTICLE XIII-A.......................................................................................................... 115   C-4, SPECIAL BUSINESS AND MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS DISTRICT .......... 115   ARTICLE XIV .............................................................................................................. 116   C-PUD, COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT ...... 116   ARTICLE XV................................................................................................................ 122   DESIGN STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT ..................... 122   DESIRABLE ................................................................................................................. 132   UNDESIRABLE ............................................................................................................ 132   NOTE: EXHIBIT A ATTACHED—ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS FOR   NEW CONSTRUCTIONARTICLE XVI ................................................................... 135   ARTICLE XVI .............................................................................................................. 136   M-1, LIGHT AND SERVICE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT .................................... 136   ARTICLE XVI-A .......................................................................................................... 140   M-1S.
LIGHT AND SERVICE INDUSTRIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT.
.............. 140   ARTICLE XVII ............................................................................................................ 141   M-2, GENERAL AND HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT ................................. 141   ARTICLE XVIII ........................................................................................................... 145   AG-1, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT .................................................................... 145   SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS .......................................................................... 147   FOOTNOTES TO ARTICLE XVIII.
SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS………..149   ARTICLE XIX .............................................................................................................. 152   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ...................................................... 152   ARTICLE XX................................................................................................................ 157   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS ............................................................................ 157   ARTICLE XXI .............................................................................................................. 162   INTERPRETATION, APPLICATION, VIOLATIONS, VALIDITY, CONFLICT   AND EFFECTIVE DATE ........................................................................................ 162        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   4   ZONING     Ordinance adopted, on file, etc.
Section 1.
The Revision of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Moultrie, copy of which   is on file in the office of the city manager, together with the ―Official Zoning Map of the   City of Moultrie, Georgia‖,  [on file in the office of the city manager], all of which has   been this day exhibited to and approved by the Mayor and Council of the City of   Moultrie, and has been placed on file in the office of the City Manager of the City of   Moultrie, be and the same is hereby adopted and declared operative as provided therein,    and binding within the then corporate limits of the City of Moultrie, Georgia.
Section 2.
The City Clerk of the City of Moultrie, Georgia is hereby authorized,   directed, and empowered, to insert at an appropriate place therein a certificate to the   effect that said regulations constitute an official publication of regulations pertaining to   zoning, and that said publication in book form, affecting said City of Moultrie, Georgia,   by authority and direction of the Mayor and Council of the said City of Moultrie,   Georgia, is effective as the Zoning Ordinance of said City.
Section 3.
Be it further ordained that all ordinances and parts of the ordinances in   conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed as of the effective date hereof.
(Ord.
No.
15-1972, 10-17-72)        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   5   ZONING ORDINANCE      CITY OF MOULTRIE, GEORGIA         TITLE         An Ordinance to revise the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Moultrie, Georgia, to   regulate restrict the use of land and buildings by dividing the City of Moultrie into   districts; defining certain terms used therein; imposing regulations, prohibitions and   restrictions governing the erection, construction and reconstruction of structures and   buildings and the use of lands for business, industry, residence, social and other specified   purposes; regulating and limiting the height and bulk of the buildings and open spaces,   regulating and limiting the density of population; limiting congestion on the public streets   by providing for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land, buildings, and   structures; establishing the boundaries of districts; creating a Board of Zoning Appeals,   defining and limiting the powers and duties of said Board, and setting standards to guide   actions of said Board and providing the means of enforcing said Ordinance and providing   a penalty for violation of said Ordinance, repeal conflicting ordinances and for the                  purposes.
PREAMBLE          In accordance with the authority and intent of the Georgia General Planning and   Zoning Enabling Act of 1957, as amended, the City of Moultrie, Georgia, desires to   provide for the promotion of the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity   and general welfare of the community, placing no undue burden upon developers,   industry, commerce or residents.
The City further desires to assure the provision of   adequate sites for industry, commerce, and residence, to provide for the free movement of   vehicles upon the proper streets and highways of the City; to protect industry, commerce   and residents against incongruous and incompatible uses of land; to promote the proper   use of land and natural resources for the economic well- being of the City as a whole; to   assure the provision of adequate space for the parking of vehicles of customers using   commercial, retail and industrial areas; and that all uses of land and buildings within the   City of Moultrie be so related as to provide for economy in government and mutual   support.
The result of such purposes of this Ordinance, which relate to the City’s   Comprehensive Development Plan, will promote and protect the public health, safety,   morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the residents, shoppers, and   workers in the City of Moultrie.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   6   ARTICLE I     SHORT TITLE     Section 1.01.
This ordinance shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the City of   Moultrie.
ARTICLE II      DEFINITIONS     For the purposes of this Ordinance, certain words and tenses used herein shall be   interpreted or defined as follows:                            Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
The singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
The word ―person‖ includes a corporation, partnership, association, as well as an   Individual.
The term ―shall‖ is always mandatory and not merely directory.
The term ―Governing Body‖ shall mean the City Council of the City of Moultrie.
Terms not herein defined shall have the meanings customarily assigned to them.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or structure on the same lot, or part   of the main building, occupied by or devoted exclusively to an accessory use.
ACCESSORY USE: A use naturally and normally incidental to, subordinate to, and   auxiliary to the permitted use of the premises.
ALLEY: Any dedicated public way providing a secondary means of ingress to or egress   from land or structures thereon.
ALTERATION: Any change, addition or modification in construction or type of   occupancy; any change in the structural members of a building, such as walls, partitions,   columns, beams, girders or any change which may be referred to as herein as ―altered‖ or   ―reconstructed‖.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms used as a dwelling for one family, which does   its cooking therein.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   7   APARTMENT HOUSE: A residential structure containing three (3) or more   apartments.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building partly below grade and having less than five (5)   feet above finished grade level of the building.
BED AND BREAKFAST HOMESTAY: Bed and Breakfast Homestay means the   limited use of a residential dwelling operated to provide overnight lodging for visitors for   compensation where rooms are made available for no more than seven consecutive   nights.
At a minimum, breakfast must be served to guests, but guests may also be served   lunch and/or dinner.
All meals must be served on premises and the charge therefore must   be included in the room charge.
Bed and Breakfast Homestay accommodations differ   from apartments, apartment houses, lodging houses, boarding houses and rooming houses   in that they are truly transient accommodations, with guests rarely staying more than a   few days.
In addition, the owner or manager must live in the facility and must be present   at all times guests are registered thereat or present on the premises.
The impact of a Bed   and Breakfast Homestay should not be much greater than that of a private home with   frequent house guests, with the exception of the parking demand.
(Amended/Adopted   by Council November 2, 2010—Ordinance #2010-88)      BILLBOARD: Any construction or portion thereof upon which a sign or advertisement   is placed, painted, or otherwise designated for the purpose of making anything known to   the general public, but not including bulletin boards used to display official court or   public office notices.
BLOCK: The property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two nearest   intersecting streets, or between the nearest such street and railroad right-of-way,   unsubdivided acreage, river or live stream, between any of the foregoing and any other   barriers to the continuity of development.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS: The words ―Board of Zoning Appeals‖ or ―Board‖   shall mean the Board of Zoning Appeals of the City of Moultrie.
BOARDING HOUSE: A dwelling where meals or lodging and meals, are provided for   compensation to three or more persons by pre-arrangement for definite periods.
A   boarding house is distinguished from a hotel, motel, or a nursing home.
BUILDABLE AREA: The buildable area of a lot is the space remaining after the   minimum open space requirements of this Ordinance have been complied with.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof, supported by columns or by walls and   intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any person, animal or chattel.
BUILDING, SEPARATE: Any portion of any structure completely separated from   every other portion by masonry or firewall without any window, which wall extends from   the ground to the roof.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   8      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot   on which is located.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the curb level to the highest   point of the roof surface, if a flat roof; to the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the mean   height level between eaves and ridge of gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The Building Inspector of the City of Moultrie or his   authorized representative.
BUILDING LINE: A line established, in general, parallel to the front street line between   which line and the front street line no part of a building shall project, except as otherwise   provided by this Ordinance.
CLERK: The Clerk of the City of Moultrie.
CLUB: An organization of persons for special purposes or for the promulgation sports,   arts sciences, literature, politics or the like but not for profit.
COMMON ELEMENTS: Mean all portions of the condominium other than units.
COMMISSION: The word ―Commission‖ shall mean the Planning Commission of   Moultrie-Colquitt County.
CONDOMINIUM: Means the property in lawful accordance with and pursuant to the   ―Georgia Condominium Act‖ (O.C.G.A.
Section 44-3-30 et seq.).
No property shall be   deemed to be a condominium unless undivided interest in common elements are vested in   the unit owners.
CONDOMINIUM UNIT: Means a unit, as defined in the Article, together with the   undivided interest in the common elements appertaining to that unit.
CONVALESCENT HOME: A convalescent home is a home for the care of children or   the aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, wherein two or   more persons are cared for.
Said home shall confirm and qualify for license under State   laws.
COURT: An open, unoccupied, unobstructed space, other than a yard, on the same lot as   a building.
DAY CARE FACILITY: A day care facility is any individual or jointly owned facility   designated to offer care and/or training to children unrelated to the owner or director for   any part of a day on some kind of a regular basis.
Such facility may or not be operated   for profit.
Day care is not a baby-sitting service to be used for the convenience of the   parents at irregular intervals.
(Drop-ins).
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   9      The purpose of day care is to assist the parent in fulfilling his responsibilities to provide   care and guidance for young children considering the whole child-his physical, social and   mental development and help him reach his maximum capacity for development and   growth.
Types of Day Care Facilities      The Services offered and ages of children accepted by a day care facility determine the   classification of the facility.
The name of the facility should be descriptive of its purpose.
a.
GROUP CARE CENTER (day nursery, day care center) as defined as a facility   for six or more children, regardless of age, whose primary purpose is the care of   the child for part of a day, while his parent or parents are absent from home.
b.
A NURSERY SCHOOL: is defined as a school for two, three and four year old   children which operates for periods not to exceed four hours a day and whose   primary purpose is education and guidance for healthy emotional and social   development of the children.
c. KINDERGARTEN: is defined as a school for four and five year old children   which operates for periods not to exceed four hours a day and whose primary   purpose is education and guidance for healthy emotional and social development   of the children.
d. FOSTER FAMILY DAY CARE: is defined as a service in a private home,   offering care in a family setting to maximum of five children, including the foster   family’s own children during a part of the day while the natural parents are absent   from their home.
Because of the special needs of the very young child, there   should be no more than two (2) years in a foster family day care home.
DENSITY: The number of families residing on or dwelling units developed on an acre of   land.
As used in this Ordinance, all densities are stated in families per net acre of land   devoted to residential use, exclusive of land in streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds,   schoolyard, or other public lands and open spaces.
DISTRICT: A portion of the City of Moultrie within which, on a uniform basis, certain   use of land and buildings are permitted and within which certain yards, open spaces, lot   areas and other requirements are established.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: A business establishment, other than a drive-in   restaurant, so developed that its retail or service character is dependent on providing a   driveway approach or parking spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in   the motor vehicle, and may include drive-in banks, drive-cleaners and drive-in laundries.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   10      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT:   A drive-in restaurant or other drive-in establishment   serving food and/or drink so developed that its retail or service character is dependent on   providing a driveway approach or parking spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve   patrons while in the motor vehicle.
DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY: ―A structure, including site built homes,   manufactured homes, and industrialized buildings, containing not more than one dwelling   unit designed for residential use, which meets or exceeds the following standards.
1.
Dwellings shall meet the minimum square footage required by Article.
ARTICLE   XVIII.
2.
The roof shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt, composition, wood singles,     Concrete; fiberglass, metal, or slate tiles, built-up gravel materials, or other   materials approved by the Building Official.
Unfinished galvanized steel or   unfinished aluminum roofing shall not be permitted.
There shall be a roof   overhang at the eaves and gable ends of not less than twelve inches, excluding   rain gutters, measured from the vertical side of the dwelling.
The roof overhang   requirements shall not apply to areas above porches, alcoves, and other   appendages that together not exceed twenty-five percent of the length of the   dwelling.
3.
Dwellings shall have exterior siding materials consisting of: wood, hardwood,   brick, concrete, stucco; glass, cementuous, fiber-cement, vinyl or metal lap; tile;   or, stone.
4.
Each dwelling shall have a code-approvable, site built, concrete, masonry, steel,   or treated wood foundation capable of transferring design dead loads and live   loads and other design loads unique to local home sites due to wind and water   conditions that imposed by or upon the structure into the underling soil without   failure.
All foundations shall be designed in accordance with the manufacturer’s   permanent installation instructions, the City of Moultrie adopted building codes,   the State of Georgia uniform construction codes or an approved engineered   design.
5.
Dwellings shall not exceed a body length width ratio of 3:1.
6.
Dwellings shall be constructed according to standards established either by State   Minimum Standard Codes as amended from time to time for site- built homes, or   the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act fro   manufactured homes, or the State of Georgia Industrialized buildings.
Each of   these codes shall be applicable to the specific structure to which it applies.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   11      a.
Manufactured Home: A structure defined by and constructed in   accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and   Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, 42 U.S.C.
5401, et seq.
The   definition at the date of adoption of this part as follows:        ―Manufactured Home‖ means a structure, transportable in one or more   sections, which, in traveling mode is eight (8) body feet or more in width   or forty (40) body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three   hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a   permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a   permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and   includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems   contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which   meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements   with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification   required by the Secretary and complies with the standards established   under this title.
b.
Industrialized Building: ―Industrialized Building‖ means any structure or   component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated,   formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or   assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in   such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the   installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
(O.C.G.A.
8-2-111).
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building or portion thereof used or designed as a   residence for three or more families living independently of each other and doing their   own cooking in said building.
This definition includes three-family houses, four-family   houses, and apartment houses, but does not include hotels, motels, trailer camps, or   mobile parks.
DWELLING, ROW OR TOWN HOUSE: A row of three or more attached single   family dwellings, not more than two and one-half (2 ½) stories in height, in which each   dwelling has its own front entrance and rear entrance.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: An efficiency unit is a dwelling unit consisting of one room,   exclusive of bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets, or dining alcove directly off the   principal room, providing not less than three hundred and fifty (350) square feet of floor   area.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   12   ELDERLY HOUSING: Residential development occupied exclusively by elderly or   handicapped persons as either tenants or owners.
To qualify as an elderly or handicapped   person or family, the occupants must meet one or more of the following definitions.
a.
Elderly person: a person who is 62 years of age or over.
b.
Handicapped person: any person who is 18 years or over and who has an   impairment or a developmental disability which is expected to be of a long   continued and indefinite duration and is a substantial impediment to his or  her   ability to live independently or to operate an automobile.
c. Elderly or handicapped family:      (1) A family of two or more persons, one of whom is elderly or handicapped, or       (2) The surviving members of any family described in subparagraph (1) above   living with the elderly or handicapped member of the family at the time of his   or her death, or       (3) Two or more elderly or handicapped persons living together or one or more   such persons living with an individual who assists in their care.
ERECTED: The word ―erected‖ includes built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon,   or any physical operations on the premises required for the building.
Excavations, fill,   drainage, and the like shall be considered part of the erection.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by   public utilities, municipal departments or commissions, of underground, surface or   overhead gas; communication; electrical; steam; fuel or water transmission or distribution   systems; sewers; pipes; conduits; cable, fire alarm and police call boxes; traffic signals;   hydrants and similar accessories in connection therewith, but not including buildings,   which are necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such utilities or municipal   departments for the general public health, safety, convenience or welfare.
FAMILY: One or more persons living together and inter-related by bonds of   consanguinity, marriage, or legal adoption, and occupying a dwelling unit as a non-profit   housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, club, boarding house,   fraternity or sorority house.
A family shall be deemed to include domestic servants,   gratuity guests, and not more than three foster or boarded children whose room and board   is paid by a recognized child care agency or organization.
FARM: A platted or unplatted parcel of lands more than ten (10) acres in area.
FILLING: Shall mean the depositing or dumping of any matter on or into the ground,   except deposits resulting from common household gardening.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   13   FILLING STATION: A building or structure designed or used for the retail sale or   supply of fuels, lubricants, air, water and other operating commodities for motor vehicles,   aircraft, or boats, and including the customary space and facilities for the installation of   such commodities on or in such vehicles, and including space for facilities for temporary   storage of vehicles not over forty-eight (48) hours, minor repair, or servicing, but not   including buffing, painting, refinishing, steam-cleaning, rust-proofing, high speed   washing thereof or the operation of lubritorium.
FLEA MARKET: A street market at which second hand articles are displayed and sold.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The ratio between the maximum allowable amount of   floor space on all floors in a building and the total area of the lot on which the building is   located.
Example: A FAR of 2.0 would allow floor space of twice the lot area, or a four   story building covering one-half of the lot.
A FAR of 0.5 would allow floor space of   one-half of the lot area, or a two-story building covering one-quarter of the lot.
FLOOR AREA, USABLE: Any floor area within outside walls of a building exclusive   of area in cellars, basements, utility area, unfinished attics, garages, open porches, and   accessory buildings.
FOSTER CHILD: A child unrelated to a family by blood or adoption with whom he or   she lives for the purposes of care and/or education.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of not   more than three motor driven vehicles owned and used by occupants of the building to   which it is accessory.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any premises used for the storage or care of motor driven   vehicles, or place where any such vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired or kept   for remuneration, hire or sale.
GOVERNING BODY: Shall mean the City Council of the City of Moultrie.
GUEST HOUSE: A building or portion thereof used or designed for use as a residence,   specifically as an accessory use to the principal building.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use customarily conducted entirely within the dwelling   and carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to   the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character thereof.
Provided further, that no article or service is sold or offered for the sale on the premises,   except such as is produced by such occupation; that such occupation shall not require   internal or external alterations or construction features, equipment, machinery, outdoor   storage, or signs not customary in residential areas.
One (1) non-illuminated name plate,   which is not more than two (2) feet in area, may be attached to the building which shall   contain only the name and occupation of the resident of the premises.
Clinics, hospitals,        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   14   barber shops, beauty parlors, and child care center day nurseries, among other, shall not   be deemed to be home occupations.
HOSPITAL: An institution providing health services, primarily for in-patients and   medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral part of the   institution such related facilities as laboratories, out-patients’ departments, training   facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
HOTEL: A building occupied or used as a more or less temporary abiding place for   individuals or for groups of individuals with or without meals, and in which there are   more than five (5) sleeping rooms, and in which no provision is made for cooking in any   individual room.
INSPECTOR: The Building Inspector of the City of Moultrie.
JUNK: For the purpose of this Ordinance, the term ―Junk‖ shall mean any motor   vehicles, machinery, appliances, product or merchandise with parts missing, scrap metals   or other scrap materials that are damaged, deteriorated or in a condition which prevents   their use for the purpose for which the product was manufactured.
This definition   specifically includes motor vehicles not moveable under their own power.
JUNK YARD: The term ―Junk Yard‖ includes automobile wrecking yards and includes   any area of more than two hundred (200) square feet for the storage, keeping or   abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap materials, or for the   dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery   or parts thereof, but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which three (3) or more dogs, four (4) months or   more old, are kept either permanently or temporarily.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study, such as testing and analyzing.
Manufacturing of product or products is not permitted within this definition.
LOADING SPACE: An off-street space on the same parcel of property with building or   group of buildings, for temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading and   unloading merchandise or materials.
LODGING HOUSE: A lodging house, or rooming house, is a building other than a hotel   where lodging is provided for five (5) or more persons for compensation pursuant to   previous arrangement, but not open to the public or transients.
LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by a use, building or structure and permitted   accessory buildings together with such open spaces, lot area as are required by this   Ordinance and having its principal frontage upon a public street or upon a private way   used for street purposes.
A lot needs not to be record.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   15   LOT AREA: The total horizontal area within the lot lines as defined, of a lot.
For lots   fronting or lying adjacent to private streets, lot area shall be interpreted to mean that area   within lot lines separating the lot from the private street, and not the centerline of said   street.
LOT,CORNER: A corner lot is a lot of which at least two adjacent sides abut for their   full length upon a street, provided that such two sides intersect at an angle of not more   than one hundred thirty five (135) degrees.
Where a lot is on a curve, if tangents through   the extreme point of the street line of such lot make an interior angle of not more than one   hundred thirty five (135) degrees, it is a corner lot.
In the case of the corner lot with   curved street line, the corner is that portion of the street lot line nearest to the point of   intersection of the tangents described above.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: An interior lot having frontages on two more or less   parallel streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
In the case of a row double frontage   lots, one street will be designated as the front street in the plat and the request for a   building permit will indicate which street is the designated front street.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES: The property lines bounding the lot.
FRONT LOT LINE: In the case of a lot abutting upon one public or private   street, the front lot line shall mean the line separating such lot from such street   right-of-way.
In the case of any other lot, the owner shall for the purpose of this   Ordinance, have the privilege of electing any street lot line as the front lot line,   providing that such choice, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, will not be   injurious to the existing, or the desirable future development of adjacent   properties.
REAR LOT LINE: Ordinarily, that lot line which is opposite and most distant   from the front lot line of the lot.
In the case of an irregular, triangular, or gore-  shaped lot, a line ten (10) feet in length entirely within the lot parallel to and at the   maximum distance from the front lot line of the lot shall be considered to be the   rear lot line for the purpose of determining depth of rear yard.
In cases where   none of these definitions are applicable, the Building Inspector shall designate the   rear lot line.
SIDE LOT LINE: Any lot line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
A side lot   line separating a lot from a street is a side street lot line.
A side lot line separating   a lot from another lot or lots in an interior side lot line.
STREET OR ALLEY LOT LINE: A lot line separating the lot from the right-  of-way of a street or an alley.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   16         LOT COVERAGE: The part percent of the lot occupied by buildings or structures,   including accessory buildings or structures.
LOT DEPTH: That means horizontal distance from the front street line to the rear lot   line, including front, rear, side, street or alley lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The mean horizontal distance between the sidelines, measured at right   angles to the side lot line.
Where the side lot lines are not parallel, the lot width shall be   considered as the average of the width between such side lot lines.
MAJOR THOROUGHFARE: The major city streets carry a relatively large amount of   vehicular traffic and may connect secondary or regional thoroughfares.
These major   thoroughfares are delineated on the Land Use Plan and Major Thoroughfare Plan for the   City of Moultrie.
MEAN: That quantity of measurement having a value midway between two extremes   and being near the average where more than two quantities or measurements are   involved.
Example: The mean of the series of measurements of number 1, 3, 6, 10, and   11 is the number 6.
MOBILE HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in traveling   mode is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length, or,   when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is   built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without   permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the   plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and   manufactured prior to June 15,1976.‖      MOBILE HOME PARK, INCLUDING TRAILER CAMP-PARK: Any premises   occupied or designed to be occupied by more than one family living in mobile homes or   house trailers.
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR: General repair, engine rebuilding, rebuilding or   reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service such as body, frame or fender   straightening and repair; overall painting; but not including undercoating of automobiles   unless conducted in a completely enclosed spray booth.
MOTOR VEHICLE WASH ESTABLISHMENT: A building or portion thereof, the   primary purpose of which is that of washing motor vehicles.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   17   NON-CONFORMING USE: Any legal use of land or structures which does not   conform to the use provisions of this Ordinance at the time of adoption or any   amendment thereto.
*     * This definition applies to the land uses in any particular zoning district which   have a legal right to remain if they were being used prior to the adoption of the   Zoning Ordinance, since zoning cannot be made retroactive.
For example: A   NON-CONFORMING USE would be a grocery store located in a single family   residential zoning district that does not apply to permit commercial uses, or a   home located in a industrial zoning that does not permit residences.
This   definition does not apply to building or structure which is permitted in a   particular zoning district but which does not meet the Zoning Ordinance   requirements for building height, yard setbacks, off-street parking space or other   regulations.
Likewise, a NON-CONFORMING USE is not an open air land use, such as a   parking lot outside storage use, which may not meet the zoning district   requirements for greenbelts or fencing, even though such an open air   land use is permitted forthwith in the particular zoning district.
To further clarify the definition of a NON-CONFORMING USE a building,   which has a deficient front yard, but is a use of land permitted in the zoning   district wherein it is located, is not a NON-CONFORMING USE but rather a   conforming use with a deficient front yard.
However, should this building be   expanded in the future, the new addition would have to observe the required front   yard as specified in the Zoning Ordinance.
NURSERY, TREE, AND SHRUB: An area or establishment devoted to the raising,   care of trees, shrubs, or other similar plant materials.
OFF-STREET PARKING LOT: A facility providing vehicular parking spaces, along   with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering, so as to provide access for entrance and   exit for the parking of more than two automobiles.
OPEN AIR BUSINESS USES: Open-air business uses shall include the following:      a.
Retail sale of trees, shrubbery, plants, flowers, seed, topsoil, humus, fertilizer,   trellises, lawn furniture, playground equipment and other home garden supplies   and equipment.
b.
Retail sale of fruit and vegetables.
c. Tennis courts, archery courts, shuffleboard, horseshoe courts, miniature golf, golf   driving ranges, children’s amusement park and similar recreation uses.
d. Bicycle, trailer, motor vehicles, boats or home equipment sales, service or  rental   services.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   18   e. Out door display and sale of garages, swimming pools, and similar use.
OTHER MANUFACTURED HOMES: Any manufactured home not meeting the   definition of Dwelling, Single Family.
PARKING SPACE: An area of not less than nine (9) feet wide by twenty (20) feet long,   for each automobile or motor vehicle, such space being exclusive of necessary drives,   aisles, entrances or exits being fully accessible for the storage or parking permitted   vehicles.
PERSON: The word ―person‖ includes any firm, co-partnership, corporation, and any   association of natural persons acting jointly or by a servant, agent or otherwise.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A Planned Unit Development is a single parcel   or contiguous parcels of land within which a number of buildings are located or intended   to be located in accordance with an overall plan of design and not in relation to a   prearranged pattern of land subdivision.
Examples of a Planned Unit Development   (P.U.D.)
include a complex of apartment buildings and a shopping center with a number   of stores.
REFERENCE LEVEL: The reference level for any building within ten (10) feet of the   front line is the official established sidewalk grade opposite the center of the front lot   line, or where no sidewalk grade is established, the reference level is the mean level of   the finished ground across the front of such building.
When the mean finished grade   about any portion of a building varies five (5) feet or more from that at the front, such   mean may be taken as the reference level for such portion of such building.
REHABILITATION CENTER: A residential facility to be used for care and treatment   for ambulatory, non-related persons who have alcohol or drug related problems, where no   more than four (4) non-related patients excluding the owner and his family may be   housed in a residential zone without any approval of the Planning Commission as long as   the facility meets all other related requirements of the various zones.
The owner must not   be a patient and must live in the facility.
If more than four (4) patients are to be housed   in one (1) facility than request for an approval must be submitted to the Planning   Commission.
The Planning Commission will study and act upon each case as to its   impact on the neighborhood regarding compatibility, traffic, access to business areas and   suitability of facility for multi-occupancy and zoning.
ROOMING HOUSE: See ―LODGING HOUSE‖.
RUBBISH: Means the miscellaneous waste materials resulting from housekeeping,   mercantile enterprises, trades, manufacturing and offices, including other waste matter   such as slag, stone, broken concrete, fly ash, ashes, tin cans, glass, scrap metal, rubber,   paper, rags, chemicals, or any similar or related combinations thereof.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   19   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: Any card, cloth, paper, metal, glass, plastic,   wood, plaster, stone or other material of any kind, placed for outdoor advertising   purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building, structure,   or thing whatsoever.
The term ―placed‖ as used in the definition of ―Outdoor Advertising   Sign‖, and ―Outdoor Advertising Structure‖ shall include erecting, constructing, posting,   painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving, or other fastening, affixing   or making visible in any manner whatsoever.
See also ―BILLBOARD‖.
SINGLE PARCEL OWNERSHIP: Possession of a parcel of property wherein the   owner does not own adjoining vacant property.
SOIL REMOVAL: Shall mean the removal of any kind of soil or earth matter which   includes top soil, sand, gravel, clay or similar materials or any combination thereof,   except common household gardening and general farm care.
STORY: That portion of a building other than a cellar or mezzanine, included between   the surface of any floor and the floor next above it, if there be no floor above it, then the   space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
MEZZANINE: Shall be deemed a full story when it covers more than fifty   (50%) percent of the story underneath said mezzanine, or if the vertical distance   from the floor next below it to the floor, next above it is twenty-four (24) feet or   more.
For the purpose of this Ordinance, a basement or cellar shall be counted as   a story if over fifty (50%) percent of its height is above the level from which the   height of the building is measured, or if it used for business purposes, or if it is   used for dwelling purposes by other than a janitor or domestic servant employed   in the same building including the family of same.
GROUND STORY: The lowest story of a building, the floor of which is not   more than twelve (12) inches below the elevation of the reference level.
HALF-STORY: The part of the building between the pitched roof and the   uppermost full story, said part being a finished floor area which does not exceed   one-half (1/2) of the floor area of said full story.
STREET: A thoroughfare which affords traffic circulation and principal means of access   to abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road,   and any other thoroughfare except an alley.
A PUBLIC STREET is a street accepted by   dedication or otherwise by the City of Moultrie.
A PRIVATE STREET is a street not so   accepted, or any street designated as a private street upon a record plat.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires permanent location on   the ground or attachment to something having such location.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   20   STRUCTURE, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: Any structure of any kind or character   erected or maintained for outdoor advertising sign may be placed, including also outdoor   advertising statuary.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building   or structure, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders or any change   in the width or number of exits, or any substantial change in the roof.
SUBDIVISION REGULATION: Regulations governing the subdivision of land   providing for the procedure for the preparation and filing of plats, tentative approval of   preliminary plats, subdivision of record of final plats, approval of the plat by the Planning   Commission, providing for platting regulations and requirements in regard to conformity   to the City’s Comprehensive Development Plan, as to streets, alleys, easements, blocks,   and lots, to provide penalties for the violation thereof, as promulgated and created by the   Planning Commission of the City of Moultrie.
SWIMMING POOL: The term ―swimming pool‖ shall mean any permanent, non-  portable structure or container intended for swimming or bathing, located either above or   below grade design to hold water to a depth of greater than twenty-four (24) inches.
TOURIST HOME:  A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are provided or   offered for transient guests, including Bed and Breakfast Homestays.
(Amended/Adopted by Council November 2, 2010—Ordinance #2010-88)      TOWN HOUSE: One of a group of three or more attached single family residences.
Each town house unit is separated from the adjoining unit or units by an approved   firewall or walls.
Firewalls shall be located on the lot line.
Each town house has a front   and rear ground level entrance.
The town is located on its own approved, recorded ―lot‖.
TREASURER: The City Treasurer of the City of Moultrie.
TRUCK GARDENING: Truck gardening is the use of land for growing edible   vegetables, fruits, and other crops for resale and commercial purposes.
Household   gardening by a property owner for a hobby or purely local consumption by himself and   his family residing on the same premises shall not be construed to be truck gardening.
USE: The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereon is designed,   arranged, or intended, for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
UNIT: Means a portion of this condominium intended for any type of independent   ownership and use.
UTILITY ROOM: A room or space, located other than in the basement, specifically   designed and constructed to house any home utilities or laundry facilities.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   21   YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and unobstructed   from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein.
The measurement of a   yard is the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the building or   structure.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal   building and extending from the front yard to the rear yard, or in the absence of either of   such yards, to the front and rear lot lines, as the case may be, except that on a corner lot,   the side yard adjacent to a street shall extend the full depth of the lot.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending the full width of the lot, the depth of which is the   minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the rear line or lines of the   principal building of the lot.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending the full width of the lot, the depth of which is the   horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the rear line or lines of the principal   building on the lot.
ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT: A permit issued by the Building Inspector   certifying that the proposed use of land is in compliance with the use provisions of this   ordinance.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   22   ARTICLE III      ZONING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES     Section 3.01.
ADOPTION.
The following policies and procedures are hereby adopted   by the City of Moultrie to provide established guidelines for the following:      a.
The adoption of a zoning ordinance.
b.
The adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance which changes the text of   the zoning ordinance; or       c. The adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance, which rezones property   from one zoning classification to another.
d. The adoption of amendments to the zoning plan sponsored by the City of   Moultrie.
e. The adoption of amendments to zoning sponsored by a citizen or property Owner.
Section 3.02.
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
Policies and Procedures for City   initiated zoning activities.
a.
In the case of developing an initial zoning plan (map and test), or updating or   amending an existing zoning plan, the Moultrie-Colquitt County Planning   Commission and the City Council will, where appropriate, utilize any new or   existing land use studies, land use plans or other relevant documents as a   resource for ordinance development or ordinance amendment.
The Moultrie   City Council will hold at least one public hearing on any new zoning   ordinance development or any proposed amendment to any existing zoning   ordinance.
b.
Upon the completion of preliminary zoning document(s) by the Planning   Commission, and after this draft document has been presented to and   reviewed by the City Council, the official public hearing will be held by City   Council and public notice of this hearing will be given no less than 15 days no   more than 45 days prior to the official hearing date.
c. Public hearing notices will be published in a newspaper of general circulation   within the City of Moultrie.
The public notice will state the time, place, and   purposes of the hearing.
d. All amendments to any existing zoning plan must be reviewed by both the   Moultrie-Colquitt County Planning Commission and the City Council.
However, when the boundary lines of an established zoning district are   proposed for change, (rezoning) the City Council shall have the Moultrie-       Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   23   Colquitt County Planning Commission prepare an evaluation of each such   proposed rezoning considering each of the following factors:      1.
Existing uses and zoning of the nearby property.
2.
The extent to which property values are diminished by the proposed   zoning restrictions.
3.
The extent to which the destruction of property values, resulting from   existing zoning of specific parcels promotes the health, safety, morals, or   general welfare of the public.
4.
The relative gain to the public, as compared to hardship imposed upon the   individual property owner by the proposed zoning classification.
5.
The suitability of the project for the zoning purposes as proposed.
6.
The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned, considered in   the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property.
7.
Conformity with or divergence from the Land Use Plan.
e. The public hearing will be convened at the advertised time and place, and will   be presided over by the appropriate officials.
f. The Presider of the public hearing will review for those present, the following   operating procedures for the public hearing.
1.
In order for a person in attendance to speak, the Chair must recognize   him/her.
Upon rising to speak, the person recognized will first identify   himself/herself.
The Chair may also request that the person furnish a   home or business street address, as appropriate.
2.
The person speaking will be allowed a reasonable amount of time to   express opinions and make comments on each separate element of the   proposed revisions, which he/she wishes to address.
3.
Additional persons will be recognized per the above procedure for the   purpose of addressing additional elements of the proposed revisions or to   make additional points to regard to elements already addressed, but not to   rehash points already made.
4.
Appropriate notes or minutes will be recorded by City Council at its   respective public hearings.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   24   g. The Moultrie-Colquitt County Planning Commission shall prepare and submit   the necessary minutes, evaluations, and or recommendations to the City   Council prior to the City Council Public Hearing.
h. The City Council at its official public hearing, will review the evaluations and   recommendations from the Planning Commission and may choose to adopt or   reject or modify the Planning Commission recommendations, or the business   may tabled for additional study to the next regular Council meeting.
Section 3.03 PROCEDURES.
Procedures for a rezoning request by citizen/property   owner.
(Amended/Adopted by Council March 18, 2008—Ordinance #2008-33)      a.
A completed application for rezoning must be filed with the Planning and   Community Development Department, hereinafter the ―Planning Department‖, on   the second Friday of the month immediately preceding the next scheduled   meeting of the Planning Commission.
At the time of application submittal, the   applicant shall deposit the fee, as currently or hereafter set by Resolution of the   City Council to cover the administrative costs associated with the application,   with the Planning Department.
By the posted deadline of the next scheduled   Planning Commission meeting the Planning Department Director or his or her   designee shall review for content all citizen/property owner requests and prepare   an agenda for the next scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
The agenda   shall be provided to all members of the Planning Commission, the Southwest   Georgia Regional Development Center, and all applicants listed thereon.
The   Planning Commission shall prepare and submit a written recommendation to the   City Manager concerning the rezoning requests within thirty (30) days from the   date at which it considered the requests.
The City Manager shall distribute the   recommendation to the City Council for consideration.
If the Planning   Commission fails to submit a written recommendation as required, the City   Council may consider the request without the recommendation and take   appropriate action.
The Planning Commission, at any regularly scheduled   meeting, may call a special meeting to consider zoning requests only if all   members present approve the request for a special meeting.
All members   approving a special meeting pursuant to this section shall be present at the special   meeting.
a.
The Zoning Administrator will inform applicant of the Public Hearing Dates.
The   official public hearing will be held by the City Council, and public notice will   appear no less than fifteen (15) days, no more than forty-five (45) days of the   official public hearing.
b.
The Public Hearing notice will name the applicant, the location of property to be   affected, the present zoning class, the proposed zoning class and the date, time,   and place of the Public Hearing held by the Mayor and Council.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   25   c. The Zoning Administrator shall have erected upon the property for which   rezoning is to be considered a sign of no less than 17‖x 24‖ announcing the public   hearing, stipulating the dates, times, and places for the hearing, the present zoning   class and the proposed zoning class.
The sign shall be clearly visible from a   public street.
It shall be erected not less than fifteen (15) days before the public   hearing date.
d. In the event, the petition for rezoning a particular parcel of property is   disapproved by the governing body, and then the same property may not again be   considered for rezoning until the expiration of at least six (6) months immediately   following the disapproval of the rezoning.
Section 3.04.
DISTRICTS.
The City of Moultrie is hereby divided into twenty (23)   classes of districts known as follows:      R-1A  Single-Family Residential District   R-1B  Single-Family Residential District   R-1C  Single-Family Residential District (Ordinance #2007-14)   R-2  Two-Family Residential District   R-3  Multiple-Dwelling Residential District   R-4  Residential (Multi-Family) District   R-CD  Condominium District   R-PUD Residential Planned Unit Development District   R-TH  Townhouse District      C-1  Neighborhood Business District   C-1R  Neighborhood Business District, Restricted   C-1T  Neighborhood Business District, Transitional   C-2  General Business District   C-2R  General Business District, Restricted   C-3  Commercial District   C-3R  Commercial Districted, Restricted   C-4  Special Business-Municipal Building District   C-PUD Commercial Planned Unit Development District      M-1  Light and Service Industrial District   M-1S  Light and Service Industrial Special District   M-2  General and Heavy Industrial District      AG-1  Agricultural District   MUD  Multiple Use District      Section 3.05.
MAP.
The boundaries of these districts are shown on that map designated   as the Zoning Map of the City of Moultrie, dated August 6, 1974, as last amended   October 3, 1995, which map is made part of this ordinance by reference.
The Zoning   Map is on file in the office of the Clerk of the City of Moultrie and all notations,        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   26   references, and other information shown thereon as a part of this Ordinance and have the   same force and effect as if said Zoning Map and all such notations, references and other   information shown there were fully set or described herein.
Except for reference on said Map to a street or other designated line is made by   dimensions shown on said Map, the district boundary lines follow lot lines, the center   lines of the street or alleys, or such lines extended and the corporate limits of the City of   Moultrie, as they existed at the time of adoption of this Ordinance.
Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall be determined by   the Board of Zoning Appeals, after recommendations from the Moultrie-Colquitt County   Planning Commission, according to rules and regulations which may be adopted by it.
Section 3.06.
SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
An application for a special use permit for a   use permitted after special approval of the Planning Commission and the Mayor and   Council or for a use permitted on appeal must be filed with the Zoning Administrator and   handled in the same fashion as an application rezoning is handled under procedures   outlined in Section 3.03 and must be passed on by the Planning Commission and   approved by the Mayor and Council.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   27   ARTICLE IV      GENERAL PROVISIONS      Except, as herein after specifically provided, the following regulations shall apply:      Section 4.01.
CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
Whenever any provisions of this   Ordinance imposes more stringent requirements, regulations, restrictions or limitations   than are imposed or required by the provisions of any other law or ordinance, the   provisions of this Ordinance shall govern.
Section 4.02.
SCOPE.
No building or structure, or part thereof, shall herein after be   erected, constructed, reconstructed, or altered and maintained, and no new use or change   shall be made or maintained of any building, structure or land, or part thereof, except in   conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 4.03.
STREET, ALLEYS, AND RAILROAD RIGHT-OF WAY.
All streets,   alleys, and railroad right-of-way, if not otherwise specifically designated, shall be   deemed to be in the same zone as the property immediately abutting upon such streets,   alleys, or railroad right-of-way.
Where the center line of a street or alley serves as a   district boundary, the zoning of such street or alley, unless otherwise specifically   designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property up to such   center line.
Section 4.04.
PERMITTED USES.
No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged,   reconstructed or structurally altered; nor shall any building or land be used, designed or   arranged for any purpose other than it is permitted in the district in which the building or   land is located.
Section 4.05.
PERMITTED AREA: No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged,   reconstructed or structurally altered, except in conformity with the area regulations of the   district in which the building is located.
(See Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE   XVIII.)
Section 4.06.
PERMITTED HEIGHT.
No building shall be erected, converted,   enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed the height herein after established   for the district in which the building is located.
(See Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE   XVIII), except that penthouses and roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways,   tanks, ventilating fans, or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the   building, and fire and parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, stage lofts, and screens,   flag poles, chimneys, smokestacks, individual domestic radio and television aerials and   wireless masts, water tanks, and similar structures may be erected above the height limits   herein prescribed.
No such structure may be erected to exceed by more than fifteen (15)   feet the height limits of the districts in which it is located; nor shall such structure have a   total area greater than twenty-five (25%) percent of the roof area of the building; nor   shall such structure be used for any residential purpose or any commercial or industrial        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   28   purpose, other than a use incidental to the main use of the building.
The erection of radio   and television transmitting, relay or other types of antenna towers, where permitted, shall   abide by the regulations set forth in Section 4.31 of this ARTICLE.
Height restrictions   for all buildings, structures and appurtenances erected beneath established aircraft   approach lanes shall be as established by the Board of Appeals, after consultation with   the appropriate aeronautical agency.
Section 4.07.
CONTINUANCE OF A NON-CONFORMING USE.
Any use or   structure existing at the time of enactment or subsequent amendment of this Ordinance,   but not in conformity with its provisions, may be continued with the following   limitations.
Any use or building, which does not conform to this Ordinance, may not be:      a.
Changed to another non-conforming use.
b. Re-established after discontinuance for 12 months.
c. Extended except in conformity with these regulations.
d. Rebuilt, altered, or repaired after damage exceeding fifty (50%) percent of the fair   sales value of the building immediately prior to damage.
Section 4.08.
ONLY ONE MAIN BUILDING ON A LOT.
Only one main building   and its customary accessory structures may here after be erected on any residential lot.
No open space or lot required for a building or structure shall, during its life, be occupied   by or counted as open space for another building or structure.
Section 4.09.
LOTS, YARDS, AND OPEN SPACES.
No space which for the purpose   of a building or dwelling group has been counted or calculated as part of a side yard,   front yard, or other open space required by this Ordinance, may by reason of change in   ownership or otherwise be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply with a yard, court,   or other open space requirement of or for any other building.
In any residential district, the front and rear yard requirements of a double frontage lot   shall be the same as prescribed for any single lot on the zone wherein the double frontage   is located.
An open porch or paved terrace may occupy a front yard, if the unoccupied portion of the   front yard furnishes a depth of not less than fifteen (15) feet.
A one-story bay window   may project not more than three (3) feet beyond the front line of the building.
In all residentially zoned districts where the simultaneous erection of two or more   residences adjacent to each other is contemplated in the same block by the same   contractor, if the building setback line is not established by existing buildings, it shall be   mandatory to submit drawings showing the site plan with staggered setback lines from   the front lot line, such staggered setback lines to be located in such manner that the   setbacks of the residences involved will alternately vary by being increased up to a        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   29   distance of one foot beyond the minimum setback line elsewhere established in the   Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII of this Ordinance.
The minimum yard spaces, including lot area per family and maximum lot coverage   required by this Ordinance for each and every building existing at the time of the passage   of this Ordinance or for any building hereafter erected shall not be encroached upon or   considered as yard or open space requirements for any other building.
(See Schedule of   Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII for specific requirements.)
Section 4.10.
MANUFACTURED HOMES AND INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDINGS   AS SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
Manufactured homes qualifying as: Dwelling,   Single-Family‖ as defined in Article II shall be allowed in all residential districts and   shall be regulated uniformly with other housing constructed on site subject to the   following compatibility standards:      a.
The Zoning Administrator or his/her designee shall compare the proposed   manufactured home to the compliant site built and other housing located,   constructed, or permitted in a two-block area of the site where the manufactured   home is proposed to be located.
Approval shall be granted upon the finding that   the manufactured home is substantially similar in (i) size, (ii) height, (iii) scale,   (iv) siding material, (v) roof material, (vi) roof style, (vii) front and side window   openings, (viii) porch area and style, (ix) provision of garage and carport,   including location, and (x) foundation to existing development or proposed   development in the same area.
The findings of the compatibility assessment shall   be documented on Community Development and Planning Department approved   forms.
Decisions of the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee may be   appealed directly to the City Council.
b.
All towing devices, wheels, axles, and hitches must be removed at the time of   installation.
c. At each exterior door there must be a roof covered landing that is a minimum of   thirty-six inches.
d. Wood, brick, or masonry must enclose any open area between the floor of the   manufactured home and the ground upon which the foundation rests.
e.  ―Other Manufactured Homes‖ and ―Mobile Homes‖ as defined in Article II used   for residential purposes (i.e., manufactured homes that do not meet the definition   of ―Dwelling, Single-Family‖) shall be permitted within approved Residential   Planned Unit Development Districts in accordance with all requirements of the   district.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   30      Section 4.11. REVIEW OF PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND CHANGE OF   RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
In all residential R-1, R-2, and R-3 Zoning Districts   there shall be five (5) separate and distinct front elevations for constructing the front or   face of two (2) or more buildings for every ten (10) residences so contemplated and it   shall not be permissible to have two (2) like front elevations adjacent to each other.
In   built-up areas where scattered vacant lots are located between or beside existing   dwellings at the time of applying for a permit to build in this vacant lot, it will be   necessary to submit photographs of the front elevation of the existing dwellings on each   side of this proposed residence so no two adjacent residences will have the same type of   front elevation.
Section 4.12.
USE OF SUBSTANDARD LOTS.
(Amended/Adopted by Council   March 18, 2008—Ordinance #2008-34).
The intent and purpose of this ordinance is to   permit the use of any residentially zoned substandard lot so long as reasonable living   standards can be provided, to maintain it on the tax roll of the City and prevent its non-  use, abandonment or its creation as, or maintenance of, a nuisance.
The Director of   Planning and Community Development or his or her designee is responsible for the   administration including approval and enforcement of this section.
A substandard lot   which does not meet the minimum lot size, width or depth requirements for its zoning   classification shall only be permitted provided that:    a.
Any dwelling constructed thereon meets the side setback requirements for   its zoning classification;    b.
Development of the lot maintains and conforms with the character of the   surrounding neighborhood as determined and approved by the Director of Planning and   Community Development or his or her designee; and,    c. The lot existed as of record on March 18, 2008, although it may be   replatted so long as width, depth or size is not decreased.
Section 4.13.
FRONTAGE.
Every principal building shall front upon a public street,   except that in the case of the planned unit developments in the R-PUD multiple   residential zone, variations may be allowed by the Planning Commission with due regard   for the overall health, welfare, safety and convenience of the people.
Section 4.14.
DWELLING IN OTHER THAN MAIN STRUCTURE.
No residential   structure shall be erected upon the rear of a lot or upon a lot with another dwelling except   guesthouses.
Section 4.15.
STREET ACCESS.
No building shall be erected on a lot, which does not   abut a publicly dedicated or maintained street.
Section 4.16.
SITE DISTANCE AT INTERSECTIONS.
In all Districts, other than   the General Business Districts, no fence, wall, hedge, or shrub planting which obstructs   the site lines at elevations between two (2) and twelve (12) feet above the roadways shall   be placed or permitted to remain on any corner lot with in the triangular area formed by   the street property lines and a line connecting them at points twenty-five (25) feet from        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   31   the intersection of the street lines, or in the case of a rounded property corner, from the   intersection of the street property lines extended.
No trees shall be permitted to remain   within such distances of such intersections unless the foliage line is maintained to comply   with the above site lines.
Section 4.17.
REDUCTION OF LOT AREA PROHIBITED.
No lot shall be reduced   in size so that lot width, yard requirements, lot area per dwelling unit, or other   requirements of this Ordinance are not maintained.
Section 4.18.
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
Accessory buildings, except as otherwise   permitted in this Ordinance, shall be subject to the following regulations:      a.
Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main building, it shall   be subject to and must conform to all regulations of this Ordinance applicable to   maintain or principal buildings.
b. Accessory building shall not be erected in any required yard except a rear  yard,   providing further that in no instance shall such a building be nearer than three (3)   feet, to any adjoining side lot line or rear lot line.
c. An accessory building, not exceeding one (1) story or fourteen (14) feet in height   may occupy not more than twenty-five (25%) percent of any non-required yard;   provided that in no instance shall the accessory building exceed the ground floor   area of the principal building.
d. An accessory building shall not be located on that portion of the lot in the area of   the principal building except when structurally attached to the principal building.
e. No detached accessory building, other than a garage, shall be located closer than   fifteen (15) feet to any principal building.
f. In the case of double frontage lots, accessory buildings shall observe front yard   requirements on both street frontages wherever there are any principal buildings   fronting on said streets in the same block or adjacent blocks.
g. When an accessory building is to be located on a corner lot, the side lot line of   which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the lot to its rear, said   building shall not project beyond the front yard line required on the lot in rear of   such corner lot.
h. Garages.
In any residence zone, no garage shall be erected closer to the side lot   line than the permitted distance for the dwelling, unless the garage shall be   completely to the rear of the dwelling in which event, the garage may be erected   three (3) feet from the side and the rear lot line.
No garage or portion thereof   shall extend into to the required front yard area.
No garage or portion thereof   shall extend beyond four (4) feet of the front line of the dwellings except in        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   32   commercial zones.
Attached garages of fireproof construction may be erected to   extend beyond the front line of the house in those areas which are being   developed according to a common plan that includes the construction of attached   garages extending beyond the front line of the house, except that such garages   shall not encroach in or upon the minimum front yard area as required by this   Ordinance, and provided the cornice, eaves or overhang shall not extend more   than six (6) inches into the required side yard area.
i. Carport.
In any residential zone, no carport shall be erected, constructed or   altered closer to the side lot line than the permitted distance for the dwelling; nor   more than four (4) feet beyond the front line of the house to which it is attached,   provided no portion of said carport shall extend into the required front yard area.
Amendment--Ordinance #907 Adopted January 13, 2004—“Accessory buildings   subject to the requirements of Article IV, Section 4.18, and to the requirement   that materials used in the construction of said accessory building shall be   compatible with the primary structure shall be permitted”.
Section 4.19.
PROHIBITED USES IN ALL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS      a.
The parking or storing in open area of boats in excess of twenty-four (24) feet,   unoccupied house trailers, buses, or converted buses, shall not be permitted for   periods of more than the first fifteen (15) consecutive days out of any ninety (90)   days; provided, however, that buses belonging to a church may be parked off   public streets on property on which the church is situated in residential districts,   and school buses may be parked off public streets on private property in   residential districts.
Such permit shall be conspicuously posted in parked or   stored vehicle or boat.
b.
Commercial highway trailers shall not be parked or stored residentially zoned   property at any time.
c. It shall be prohibited use in all residentially zoned districts to park or store   wrecked or junked vehicles, power driven construction equipment, used lumber,   metal, or any other miscellaneous scrap or salvageable material in quantity.
d. Tractor-trailer combinations, tractors, or trailers shall not be placed or stored in   residentially zoned districts.
Section 4.19.1.
PROHIBITED USES IN ALL AGRICULTURAL, BUSINESS,   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
a.
Mobile homes, as defined by this Ordinance, may not be retrofitted or altered in   any manner for use in any of the Agricultural, Business, Commercial, and   Industrial Districts.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   33   b.
Any type of prefabricated, modular or mobile unit or structure for use in any of   the Agricultural, Business, Commercial and Industrial Districts in the City of   Moultrie, must be fabricated or manufactured under authority of; and bear the   official seal of; the Standard Building Code Congress International, Inc., in   addition; it must comply with all locally adopted codes and ordinances.
Section 4.20.
FILLING STATIONS AND PUBLIC GARAGES.
In order to regulate   and control the problems of noise, odor, light, fumes, vibrations, dust, danger of fire and   explosion, and traffic congestion which result from unrestricted and unregulated   construction and operation of gasoline service or filling stations, and to regulate and   control the adverse effects which these and other problems incidental to the filling station   may exercise upon adjacent and surrounding areas, the following additional regulations   and requirements are provide herein for filling stations located in any zone.
All filling   stations erected after the effective date of this Ordinance shall comply with all   requirements of this section.
No filling station existing on the effective date of this   Ordinance shall be structurally altered as to provide a lesser degree of conformity with   the provisions of this section than existed on the effective date of this Ordinance.
a.
A filling station shall be located on a lot having a frontage along the principal   street of not less than one hundred forty (140) feet, and having a minimum area of   not less than fourteen thousand (14,000) square feet.
b.
A filling station building housing an office and/or facilities for servicing, greasing   and/or washing motor vehicles shall be located not less than forty (40) feet from   any street lot line, and not less than ten (10) feet from any other lot line.
c. All driveways providing ingress to or egress from a filling station shall not be   more than fifty (50) feet wide at the property line.
No driveway or curb opening   shall be located nearer than ten (10) feet to any corner, as measured along the   property line.
No driveway shall be located nearer than thirty (30) feet to any   other driveway giving access to or from the filling station.
d. Raised curb six (6) inches in height shall be erected along all street lot lines,   except for driveway openings.
e. The entire lot, excluding the area occupied by a building, shall be hard surfaced   with concrete or a plant-mixed bituminous material, or if any part of the lot is not   surfaced than that area shall be landscaped and separated from all surface area by   a low barrier or curb.
f. All lubrication equipment, motor vehicle washing equipment, hydraulic hoists,   and pits shall be enclosed entirely within a building.
All gasoline pumps shall be   located not less than fifteen (15) feet from any lot line, and shall be arranged so   that motor vehicles shall not be supplied with gasoline or services while parked   upon or over-hanging any public sidewalk, street or right-of-way.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   34   g. A filling station located on a lot having an area of fourteen thousand (14,000)   square feet shall include not more than eight (8) gasoline pumps and two (2)   enclosed stalls for servicing, lubricating, greasing and/or washing motor vehicles.
An additional two (2) gasoline pumps and/or one (1) enclosed stall may be   included with the provision of each additional two thousand (2,000) square feet of   lot area.
h. Where a filling station adjoins any property located in any residential zone, or is   separated from any such property by a public alley only, a masonry wall five (5)   feet in height shall be erected and maintained along the common lot line or along   the alley lot line.
A fixed curb or barrier to prevent vehicles from contacting the   wall shall protect all masonry walls.
i.
All exterior lighting, including illuminated signs, shall be erected and hooded or   shielded to be deflected away from adjacent and neighboring property.
j.
The total gasoline storage capacity of each filling station shall not exceed twenty   thousand (20,000) gallons.
k. No fuel tank shall be filled at a gasoline service station, except through a hose   connected to a pump of a type approved by the Underwriters Laboratories,   Incorporated.
l. No gasoline or inflammable liquid shall be kept or conveyed in open receptacles   or in glass bottles or other breakable containers on the premises of a gasoline   service station, except in glass bottles of not more than eight (8) ounces capacity   used for sample purposes, and shall not be used for cleaning purposes on such   premises.
No glass container gasoline pump shall be installed in any building.
m. All combustible waste and rubbish, including crankcase draining, shall be kept in   metal receptacles fitted with a tight cover until removed from the premises.
No   gasoline, oil, grease, or inflammable liquid shall be allowed to flow into or be   placed in the drainage system.
Oil and grease shall not be allowed to accumulate   on the floor.
Sawdust shall not be kept in any gasoline service station or place of   storage therein, and sawdust or other combustible material shall not be used to   absorb oil, grease, or gasoline.
n. All gasoline service station proprietors and attendants, upon being notified by any   city inspector of the presence of gasoline or volatile liquids in sewers, shall   cooperate in ascertaining the reason therefore.
There shall be constantly   maintained in good working order at least one (1) two and one-half (2 ½) gallon   fully charged, portable foam type fire extinguisher at each gasoline service   station.
Section 4.21.
OCCUPANCY: TEMPORARY GARAGES, ACCESSORY   BUILDING TRAILER DWELLINGS, and BASEMENT APARTMENTS.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   35   Buildings erected after the effective date of this Ordinance as garages, accessory   buildings, except guesthouses, or trailer dwellings, except where located in properly   licensed trailer park, shall not be occupied for dwelling purposes.
No basement or cellar   apartment shall be used or occupied for dwelling purposes at any time.
Section 4.22.
BUILDING GRADES.
Any building requiring yard space shall be   located at such an elevation as determined by the Building Inspector, that a sloping grade   shall be maintained to cause the flow of surface water to run away from the walls of the   building.
A sloping grade, beginning at the sidewalk level, shall be maintained and   established from the center of the front lot line to the finished grade line at the front of the   building.
The rear and sided yards shall be sloped to allow for the flow of surface water   away from the building without creating a nuisance.
However, this shall not prevent the   grading of a yard space to provide sunken or terraced areas, provided proper means are   constructed and maintained to prevent the run-off of surface water from creating a   nuisance on the adjacent properties.
(Refer also to City Building Code.)
When a new building is constructed on a vacant lot between two existing buildings or   adjacent to an existing building, the reference level shall be used in determining the grade   around the new building and the yard around the new building shall be graded in such a   manner as to meet existing grades and not permit run-off of surface water to flow onto   the adjacent properties.
Final grades shall be approved by the Building Inspector only after inspection.
Section 4.23.
BUILDINGS TO BE MOVED.
Any building or structure which has   been wholly or partially erected on any premises located within the City shall not be   moved to and placed upon any other premises in the City until a building permit for such   removal shall have been secured under Section 19.03 of this Ordinance.
No building or   structure shall be moved from the City from outside the City limits until such building   permit has been secured.
Any such building or structure shall fully conform to all the   provisions of this Ordinance in the same manner as new building or structure.
Before a permit may be issued for moving a building or structure, the Building Inspector   shall inspect same and shall determine if it is in a safe condition to be moved; whether it   may be reconditioned to comply with the Building Code and other City requirements for   the use and occupancy for which is to be used, and whether or not it will be of similar   character with the buildings in the area where it is to be moved.
Also, clearances will be   obtained from all utility companies insuring that utilities are discontinued and all   facilities accounted for.
Special inspection fees may be charged to cover costs of   inspecting the old site and the new site of said building or structure.
Providing these   conditions can be complied with, a building permit shall be issued for the moving of said   building or structure; this permit to carry the verification on the Building Inspector.
Section 4.24.
EXCAVATIONS OR HOLES.
Removal and filling of land, the   construction, the maintenance or existence within the City of Moultrie of any unprotected   unbarricaded, open and dangerous excavations, holes, pits, or wells, or of any        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   36   excavations, holes, or pits which constitute or are reasonably likely to constitute a danger   or menace to the public health, safety, or welfare, are hereby prohibited; provided,   however, this section shall not prevent any excavation under a permit issued pursuant to   this Ordinance of the Building Code of the City of Moultrie, where such excavations are   properly protected and warning signs posted in such a manner as may be approved by the   Building Inspector and provided further, that this section shall not apply to streams,   natural bodies of water or to ditches, streams, reservoirs, or other major bodies of water   created or existing by authority of the State of Georgia, County of Colquitt, City of   Moultrie or other governmental agency.
Section 4.25.
EXCAVATION, REMOVAL AND FILLING OF LAND.
The use of   land for the excavation, removal, filling, or depositing of any type of earth material,   topsoil, gravel, rock, garbage, rubbish, or other wastes or by-products, is not permitted in   any zoning district except under a certificate from, and under the supervision of the   Building Department.
Such certificate may be issued in appropriate cases upon the   furnishing of bond, by company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia,   running to the City in an amount as established by the Engineering Department which   will be sufficient in amount to rehabilitate the property upon default of the operator of   such excavating or filling operation, and to cover court costs and other reasonable   expenses.
This regulation does not apply to normal soil removal for basement or   foundation work when the Building Department has previously duly issued a building   permit.
Costs of a permit to fill or excavated may be allocated to the Building   Department to defray the City’s costs and in accordance with Section 19.06 of this   Ordinance.
Section 4.26.
RESTORING UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
Nothing in this Ordinance shall   prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any part of any building, or   structure declared unsafe by the Building Inspector or the required compliance with his   lawful order, except as specified in ARTICLE V of this Ordinance.
Section 4.27.
CONSTRUCTION BEGAN PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF   ORDINANCE.
Nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to require any change in the   plans, construction or designed use of any building upon which actual construction was   lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this Ordinance, and upon which building actual   construction has been diligently carried on, and provided further that such building shall   be completed within one (1) year from the date of passage of this Ordinance.
Section 4.28.
VOTING PLACE.
The provisions of this Ordinance shall not be so   construed as to interfere with the temporary use of any property as voting place in   connection with a municipal or other public election.
Section 4.29.
APPROVAL OF PLATS.
No proposed plat of a new subdivision shall   hereafter be approved by either the City Council or the Planning Commission unless the   lots within such plat equal or exceed the minimum size and width requirements set forth   in the various districts of this Ordinance and unless such plat fully conforms with the   statutes of the State of Georgia and the ordinances of the City of Moultrie.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   37      Section 4.30.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
The erection, construction, alteration, or   maintained by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions, of underground   or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water distribution or transmission systems,   collection, communication supply or disposal systems, including mains, drains, sewers,   pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,   hydrants, towers, poles, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection   therewith, but not including buildings, reasonably necessary furnishing of adequate   service by such public utilities or municipal departments or commissions, or for the   public health or safety or general welfare, shall be permitted as authorized and regulated   by law and other ordinances of the City of Moultrie in any use district, it being the   intention hereof to exempt such erection, construction, alteration and maintenance from   the application of this Ordinance.
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the power to permit the erection and use of the   building, or an addition to an existing building, of a public service corporation or for   public utility purposes, in any permitted district to a greater height or of larger area than   the district requirements herein established, and permit the location in any use district of   a public utility building structure or use, if the Board shall find such use, height, area, or   structure reasonably necessary for the public convenience and service, provided such   building, structure, or use is designed, erected and landscaped to conform harmoniously   with general architecture and plan of such district.
Section 4.31.
PROTECTIVE SCREENING.
In order to provide adequate protective   screening for residential areas adjacent to or near non-residential areas, the following   regulations shall apply:      a.
Adjacent Residential Property.
Where a C-1, C-2, C-3, C-PUD, M-1, or M-2   Districts abuts directly upon a residentially zoned district, a landscaped greenbelt,   not less than twenty (20) feet wide, shall be provided and maintained along its   entire length by the users of the C-1, C-2, C-3, C-PUD, M-1, OR M-2 property.
In addition, the C-1, C-2, C-3, C-PUD, M-1, OR M-2 District shall be screened   from such contiguous residentially zoned district by either a building housing a   permitted use or else by an ornamental masonry wall or chain link fence five (5)   feet in height above grade, between said greenbelt areas and the commercial and   industrial use in said C-1, C-2, C-3, C-PUD, M-1, OR M-2 District.
Such   greenbelt shall be planted with deciduous trees, evergreens, flowering trees,   and/or ornamental trees set not closer than six (6) feet to the fence or wall.
The remainder of the landscaped area, which is not planted with the   aforementioned stock, shall be well-kept lawn.
All landscaping shall be   maintained in a healthy growing condition, neat and orderly appearance.
All planting plans shall be first submitted to the Planning Commission for   approval as to suitability of planting materials and arrangement thereof in   accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   38      Where vehicles or open air display generally exceed a five (5) foot height, said   wall or chain link fence shall be increased to a height not exceeding ten (10) feet,   providing further that all such walls shall be of uniform height around the   premises and the design of such wall is first approved by the Planning   Commission.
If, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, the greenbelt would serve no good   purpose, the Commission may waive such requirements and provide only the wall   or fence between the residential and C-1, C-2, C-3, C-PUD, M-1, OR M-2   Districts, provided it abuts a non-conforming use in a residential area.
b.
Residential Property Across Alley.
Any C-1, C-2, C-3, C-PUD, M-1, or M-2   District on which a drive-in business, open air display, commercial parking lot, or   other open use is conducted shall be separated along its entire length from any   adjacent residentially zoned district, located across a public alley of not less than   twenty (20) feet wide, by either a building housing permitted use or by an   ornamental masonry wall five (5) feet in height above grade located preferably,   on the residential side of said public alley.
Greater wall height may be required in   accordance with paragraph ―a‖ above.
c. Waiver of Wall or Fence Requirement.
Where required walls or fences are   provided on the business side of public alleys, wall, or fence requirements may be   waived to provide necessary entrance to or exit from required off-street parking   and loading areas, provided approval is secured from the Planning Commission as   to suitability of width and location of such openings in said wall or fence.
d. Adjacent Commercial or Industrial Property.
Where an R-3 Districts abuts   directly upon a commercially or industrially zoned district, unless the requirement   is already fulfilled by abutting property, a landscaped greenbelt shall be provided   and maintained along its entire length by the users of the R-3 District.
Such   greenbelt shall be a minimum of four (4) feet in width and be deciduous trees,   evergreens, flowering trees, and/or ornamental trees.
Section 4.32.
ANIMALS.
No livestock shall be kept or maintained in any zone other   than the AG (Agricultural District), except that for each dwelling unit, the occupant may   keep for his personal use domestic pets, so long as they are not kept or used for   commercial purposes, or in such numbers as to create a nuisance by reason of noise or   offensive odors and in no event shall kennels be maintained either for private or   commercial use.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   39      Section 4.33.
SIGNS (Ordinance #260, Adopted 11/15/77)      a.
General Provisions: This section provides the detailed standards for the   installation or placement of signs needed to implement the policy of the Colquitt   County Consolidated Comprehensive Management Plan to promote the   development of local sign ordinances in order to retain scenic views.
b.
Permit Requirements: A permit shall be required for the erection, placement, or   replacement of any sign, except as provided in Table 4.33-1.
Failure to obtain a   permit shall be a violation of this ordinance, subject to the enforcement procedure   provided in Article XIX and penalties provided in Article XXI, Section 21.02.
Compliance with this section is required, even when a permit is not, and any sign   that is not expressly permitted by this section is prohibited.
c. Master Signage Plan: No permit shall be issued for a new or replacement sign   for any use displaying more than one sign except upon submission of a master   signage plan.
A master signage plan consists of one or more scaled drawings   showing the location, type, size, and design of all existing signs appurtenant to the   lot or parcel, and the proposed sign or signs.
A master signage plan must be   submitted with any application for a new development that proposes to display   more than one sign, and with the first application for a building permit for a new   or replacement sign to be displayed by an existing use that displays one or more   sings.
d. Placement of signs:  No sign shall be placed:      1.
In or over any public right-of-way, except as provided in ―n‖ and ―o‖ of this   section,      2.
On any tree or other natural feature; or on a utility pole,      3.
On a vehicle or trailer parked in a visible location for the primary purpose of   displaying the sign, or      4.
Where it creates a traffic safety hazard by obscuring traffic control signs or   signals, confuses drivers by appearing to be a traffic control sign or signal or   the lights of a public safety or maintenance vehicle, or obstructing vision at   intersections or driveways.
Pennants and fringe pennants only shall be attached to buildings and emanate to   and/or be suspended from permanent rigid poles or similar structures; use of   pennants and fringe pennants to accentuate the architectural features of a building   shall be prohibited.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   40      e. Sign Types: The types of signs permitted in each zoning district are shown in   Table 4.33-1.      f. Number of Signs: The maximum number of signs permitted in each zoning   district is shown in Table 4.33-2.
Nothing in that table shall be construed to allow   the total area of signs on any lot to exceed the overall sign area limitations of ―h.‖    Where the number of signs permitted is expressed as a ratio with street frontage,   every lot, or parcel is permitted one sign, regardless of its frontage, but additional   signs shall be permitted only with the addition of a full increment of frontage.
g. Size of signs: The maximum size of individual signs permitted in each zoning   district shall be as shown in table 4.33-3.
Nothing in table 4.33-3 shall be   construed to allow the total area of signs on any lot or parcel to exceed the overall   sign area limitations of ―h.‖      1.
The size permitted is for one face of a sign.
Signs which have two faces   (freestanding, projecting, and suspended signs, and some banners) will   actually have double the display area permitted by Table 4.33-2.
2.
The size of a sign face shall be calculated as the area of the smallest simple   geometric shape (circle, square, rectangle, or triangle) that will encompass the   outer limits of the sign’s copy, including both words and graphics.
Decorative   or contrasting borders are part of the copy.
h. Total Area of Signs: The Maximum total area of signs permitted on any lot or   parcel shall be as shown in Table 4.33-4.      i.
Height of Signs:        1.
The height of freestanding and building signs is limited to the height of the   building façade on which the sign is placed; however, the maximum height of   any freestanding sign shall be 20 feet, except in the MUD, where it shall be 4   feet.
2.
Fringe pennants must be installed at a minimum height of 10 feet.
j. Illumination of Signs:      1.
Signs with a constant source of illumination shall be permitted in all   commercial, manufacturing, and mixed-use districts.
Electrical signs and   spotlights or other fixtures used for the indirect illumination of signs shall be   allowed only in the C-3, M-1, and M-2 Districts and shall be installed so as to   not cause a nuisance resulting from the light and/or glare and in accordance   with the City’s electrical and fire codes.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   41         2.
No animated, flashing, blinking, or moving signs shall be permitted, except   that animated public service message signs displaying the time of day,   temperature, and/or announcements of community events shall be permitted in   all commercial and manufacturing zoning districts.
k. Temporary Signs/Portable Signs:  Portable signs shall be allowed only as   temporary signs and shall be permitted as shown in tables 4.33-1, 4.33-2, and   4.33-3, but only:       1.
Upon approval of a permit when required as shown in Table 4.33-1;            2.
For a limited term, not exceeding 60 days in a given year; and      3.
Upon the posting of a bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or other financial   surety guaranteeing removal within the specified term in the amount specified   by the City Council.
4.
Temporary internal window signs in the Mixed Use District (MUD) pertaining   to special events which refer to particular periods of time such as meetings,   sales exhibitions, political campaigns and vacancy announcements shall be   permitted on the building interiors provided that such signs shall be removed   when no longer applicable in time, or in any case no later than ten (10) days   after the advertised event has ended.
5.
Portable signs, excepting trailer signs and real estate signs, shall be used to   promote non-commercial events only.
l. Flying Paraphernalia, inflatable signs, and balloons: Flying paraphernalia,   inflatable signs, and balloons may be used for commercial and non-commercial   promotional events for no more than seven (7) calendar days up to four times per   calendar year.
m. Banners:      1.
Every business, service, entity, or other organization located in the City shall   be permitted to display 2 banners.
2.
The maximum size of any such banner displayed shall be no more than 50   square feet.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   42      3.
Each banner displayed shall be made from vinyl or canvas with a minimum   weight of 8 ounces.
Each banner shall have metal grommets placed 15 inch   on centers around the perimeter to which rope or nylon tape is to be attached   and in the corners for attachment.
All edges of each such banner shall be   hemmed and reinforced by adding reinforcing materials such as rope or nylon   tape to the edges.
4.
Each banner shall be mounted on the building housing the primary use or   attached to a permitted freestanding sign.
A banner displayed pursuant to this   subsection shall not be mounted between columns on a building or similar   solid structure, self-supporting poles, wires or other such devices.
5.
Banners shall be removed at the end of the advertised event or sale.
n. Design of Signs:  RESERVED      o.
Signs In Public Rights-of-Way: No sign shall be placed in any public right-of-  way, except traffic control signs and public notices placed by public agencies.
p. Signs Over Public Rights-of-Way:  No sign shall extend over a public right-of-  way, except that:      1.
Awnings, canopies, banners, and projecting signs may extend up to 7 feet over   a public sidewalk (measured from the face of the supporting building), but   shall not extend to within more than 2 feet of the near curb or property line,   whichever is closer to the building;      2.
Suspended signs may hang over a public sidewalk that is covered by an   arcade, awning, or canopy; and,       3.
Any awning, canopy, banner, or signs extending over a public sidewalk shall   have a minimum clearance of 8 feet.
q.
Maintenance of Signs: Every sign permitted by this ordinance shall be kept in   good condition and repair.
When any sign becomes insecure, in danger of falling   or is otherwise deemed unsafe by the Building Official, or if any sign shall be   unlawfully installed, erected or maintained in violation of any provisions of this   ordinance, the owner thereof or the person or firm using the same shall, upon   written notice by the Building Official forthwith in the case of immediate danger,   and in any case within not more than 10 days, make such sign conform to the   provisions of this ordinance, or shall remove it.
If within 10 days the order is not   complied with, the Building Official shall be permitted to remove or cause such   sign to be removed at the expense of the owner and/or user of the sign.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   43   r. Identification of Signs: All permanent signs shall bear a weatherproof label   identifying the owner, including, the owner’s name, address, and telephone   number.
Identification labels may be attached to the signs or its supporting   structure.
s. Abandoned Signs: Any sign that is not structurally sound, or that no longer   serves to inform or attract the public, including illegible sings and signs   advertising or identifying abandoned uses, shall be considered abandoned and its   removal required.
Abandoned signs shall be removed within 45 days of the   adoption of these regulations, or within 45 days of the abandonment of the use to   which the sign was appurtenant.
Abandonment shall not be a matter of the   owner’s intent, but shall be considered to occur whenever a use has ceased to   operate for more than 6 months.
t. Exempt Signs: The following signs shall be exempt from the provisions of this   section.
1.
Official notices authorized by a court, public body, or public safety official.
2.
Directional, warning, or information sign signs authorized by federal, state,   or municipal governments.
3.
Memorial plaques, building identification signs and building cornerstones   when cut or cared into a masonry surface or when made of noncombustible   material and made an integral part of the building or structure.
4.
One (1) flag of a government or non-commercial institution per business or   institution flown at the location of the institution r business or at an auxiliary   location.
5.
Religious symbols and seasonal decorations within the appropriate public   holiday season.
6.
Banners displayed by a public entity as a public service.
7.
Signs advertising festivals, special public events, etc., provided such signs   shall not be closer than any right-of-way line of any public street and do not   exceed 150 square feet in area cumulatively on one piece of property.
Such   signs shall be approved by the Community Development and Planning   Director.
8.
Works of fine art displayed in conjunction with a commercial enterprise   where the enterprise does not receive direct commercial gain.
9.
Street address signs and combination nameplate and street address signs that   contain no advertising copy and which do not exceed 6 square feet in area.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   44      u. Non-Conforming Signs: Signs in existence on the effective date of this   amendment to the Zoning Ordinance shall be subject to the provisions of Article   V of this Ordinance.
v. Definitions:     1.
Awning.
An awning is a fabric shelter over a window or door that is   supported by a rigid framework attached to a building.
Awnings may be used   to display a logo.
2.
Banner Sign.
A building sign made of fabric, plastic, or a similar lightweight   material and hung from a building or pole or framework attached to a   building.
Banners may also be freestanding signs, but are regulated as such.
3.
Billboard.
Any construction or portion thereof upon which a sign or   advertisement is placed, painted, or otherwise designated for the purpose of   making anything known to the general public, but not including bulletin   boards used to display official court or public office notices.
4.
Building Sign.
Any sign attached to a building.
Several types of building   signs are defined in this section.
5.
Canopy Sign.
A building sign that is part of a fabric, plastic, or similar shelter   supported by a non-combustible rigid framework attached to a building, and   sheltering the building’s entrance and/or windows.
6.
Construction Sign.
A construction sign is a wall or freestanding sign that   identifies a building under construction or to be constructed.
These signs   include no advertising or promotional material, but identify the building’s   planned use, owners or operators, designers, construction contractors, and   financiers.
7.
Cornerstone Sign.
A cornerstone sign is carved or cast into a building, or a   metal plaque permanently attached to a building.
It carries no commercial   message, but may include the building’s name, the date of its completion, and   the names of owners, architects, contractors, etc.
8.
Directional, Address Sign.
Any sign used to display the address of a building   or use, or to identify points of access, the direction of travel, and similar   functions in off-street parking and loading areas.
Such signs include no   advertising or promotional copy.
On-site directional signs are used to identify   points of access, the direction of travel, and handicapped parking spaces, and   to perform similar functions in off-street parking and loading areas.
They   include no advertising or promotional copy, but may include a logo.
Off-site        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   45   directional signs identify and provide directions to an off-highway use.
They   include no advertising or promotional copy, but may include a logo.
9.
Flag.
A piece of fabric of distinctive design attached to poles, wires, or ropes   that is used as a symbol, as a signaling or attention-getting device, or as a   decoration.
10.
Freestanding Sign.
Any sign that has its own supporting structure, rather than   being attached to and supported by a building.
11.
Logo.
A logo is a simple graphic symbol used to identify a business, use, or   product.
Section 4.33v.
Definitions.
(Amended/Adopted by Council May 5, 2009—  Ordinance #2009-58)      Multiple-Message Sign.
Signs which change the message or copy on the   sign face mechanically or electronically by movement or rotation of panels or   slates, or by changing the electronic display on the sign face.
12.
Nameplate.
A wall sign that identifies the occupants and/or address of a   residence.
13.
Outdoor Advertising Sign.
Any card, cloth, paper, metal, glass, plastic, wood,   plaster, stone or sign of other material of any kind, placed for outdoor   advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post,   fence, building, structure, or thing whatsoever.
The term ―placed‖ as used in   the definition of ― Outdoor Advertising Sign,‖ and ― Outdoor Advertising   Structure‖ shall include erecting, constructing, posting, painting, printing,   tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or other fastening, affixing or   making visible in any manner whatsoever.
14.
Pennant.
A flag or banner tapering usually to a point or swallow tail and used   for identification or signaling.
15.
Pennant, Fringe (a.k.a., streamer).
Pennants with an ornamental border   consisting of short straight or twisted threads or strips hanging from cut or   raveled edges.
16.
Point of Sale Sign.
Signs advertising sales or promotions of soft drinks,   tobacco products, etc.
made of cardboard, metal, or similar durable material   attached non-permanently to freestanding sign poles, poles supporting   canopies, and lighting poles generally displayed at convenience stores or   similar type of business.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   46   17.
Portable Sign.
Any sign that is not permanently attached to a building or the   ground.
Portable signs are permitted only as temporary signs.
See ―28‖   below.
18.
Projecting Sign.
A projecting sign is attached to the wall of a building and   projects away from the wall.
Projecting signs do not extend above the   roofline of the building to which they are attached.
See section ―n‖ above   regarding signs that project over a public sidewalk.
19.
Real Estate Sign.
Real estate signs are wall signs, round signs that indicate   the property on which they are placed is for sale, lease, or rent.
Real estate   signs are permitted for a limited time.
20.
Replacement.
To construct, restore, or erect a new or refurbished sign in   place of a pre-existing sign.
For the purposes of regulations pertaining to   signs, the term ―replacement‖ does not include the temporary removal of an   existing sign for repair or refurbishment.
21.
Residential Sign.
A residential sign is any type of sign (freestanding or   attached to a building) permitted in the zoning district and appurtenant to a   residential building.
The maximum allocated area of residential signs may be   used for any purpose, including the display of the address or the name of the   occupants, advertising an approved home occupation, advertising space for   rent of the sale of the property, and promoting political candidates.
Any   dwelling may also display, without a permit, two temporary sings of no more   than six square feet each, announcing the short term sale of used household   goods (i.e., a garage sale or yard sale), provided those signs are placed no   more than two days before the sale and removed within one day after the sale   and that all provisions of Section 90-56 of the City of Moultrie Code of   Ordinances are met.
22.
Roof Sign.
Any building sign that project above the building façade.
The   only kind of roof sign permitted by these regulations is an integral roof sign,   in which the sign is designed into the roof structure, and does not project or   extend above the highest point of the roof.
23.
Roofline.
For the purposes of this section, the highest point of building’s roof.
24.
Sandwich Sign.
Sandwich signs are small self-supporting freestanding signs   that are temporarily placed on a sidewalk, plaza, or other open area.
25.
Sign.
Any object or structure used to identify, advertise, or in any way attract   or direct attention to any use, building, person, or product by any means,   including, but not limited to the use of lettering, words, pictures, and other   graphic depictions or symbols.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   47   26.
Suspended Sign.
Suspended sings are attached to the ceiling of an arcade or   the framework of a canopy and hang over a sidewalk.
27.
Traffic Control Sign.
Standard regulatory signs installed by public agencies,   including stop and yield signs, speed limit signs, etc.
When installed on   private premises, such signs are directional.
28.
Temporary Sign.
Any freestanding or building sign permitted in the zoning   district, but displayed for sixty (60) or fewer days in a given year.
29.
Wall Sign.
A building sign painted directly on the wall of a building or   attached to the wall of a building, and parallel with the wall to which it is   attached.
Wall signs extend no more than eighteen inches (18‖) from the   building to which they are attached.
Wall signs do not extend above the   roofline of the building to which they are attached.
30.
Window Sign.
A sign that appears within the frame of and is directly affixed   to window.
Window displays of merchandise are not signs, provided that no   part of the display is affixed to the window.
Section 4.33 SIGNS.
(Subsection added-Amended/Adopted by Council May 5, 2009-Ordinance   #2009-58—adding subsection)      Multiple-Message Signs:  Signs which change the message or copy on the sign face   mechanically or electronically by movement or rotation of panels or slates, or by   changing the electronic display on the sign face.
These signs are only permitted in a   C-3 Zoned District.
1.
No multiple-message sign may change its message or copy, or any pictures or   images that are part of the message, more frequently than once every ten (10)   seconds.
2.
When the message of a multiple-message sign is changed mechanically, it shall   be accomplished in three (3) seconds or less.
When the message of a multiple-  message sign is changed in an electronic manner, through the use of light   emitting diodes, backlighting or other light source, the transition shall occur   within one-half (1/2) second.
3.
When multiple-message sign is located within one hundred fifty (150) feet of   any residentially zoned district, the display of the multiple messages shall   discontinue between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. and the sign shall   be static and not display more than one (1) multiple-message sign per lot, and   said sign shall be permitted only on a ground sign or freestanding structure,   and not on any wall sign or window sign.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   48    Section 2.
That Article IV, Section 4.33 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of   Moultrie, Georgia be amended by adding thereto a new sub-section within section 4.33v   to read as follows:           Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   49   TABLE 4.33-1 PERMITTED SIGNS BY TYPE AND ZONING DISTRICT   N= not permitted, E= permitted in compliance with these regulations, no permit required,   P= permitted in compliance with these regulations, permit required    ZONING DISTRICT   SIGN TYPE R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2,   R-3, R-4, R-CD, R-PUD,   R-TH, AG-1   C-1, C-1R, C-1T, C-2,   C-2R, C-3, C-3R, C-4,   C-PUD   M-1, M-1S, M-2 MUD   Freestanding Signs        Residential E E 1  E  1  E  1     Directional, address P 2  E E E    Banner N E E E    Flags N E E E   Pole / Pylon Attached Product   Point of Sale Signs   N E N N    Outdoor Advertising    (Off-premise)   N N P N    Other P P P P          Building Signs        Residential E E 1  E  1  E  1     Directional, address P 2  E E P    Awning N P P P    Banner N P P N    Canopy N P P P    Cornerstone E E E P    Nameplate E E E P    Projecting N P P P    Roof N N N N    Suspended N P P P    Wall P 2  P P P    Window N P P E    Flags N E N P          Temporary Signs        Construction E 2  E E E    Portable E P P P    Sandwich N P P P  1  – Permitted so non-conforming residential structures can replace existing signs and residential structures on non-residential premises.
2  – Not permitted for single or   two family dwellings, but permitted for multiple dwelling, multi-family, condominium, and townhouse structures, churches, schools, and similar uses where permitted in these   zoning districts.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   50   TABLE 4.33-2 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SIGNS BY TYPE AND ZONING DISTRICT   N= not permitted, NL= no limit    ZONING DISTRICT   SIGN TYPE R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2,   R-3, R-4, R-CD, R-PUD,   R-TH, AG-1   C-1, C-1R, C-1T,    C-2, C-2R, C-3,    C-3R, C-4, C-PUD   M-1, M-1S, M-2 MUD   Freestanding Signs        Residential 1 1 1 1    Directional, address NL NL NL NL Onsite, 1 Off-site    Banner N See Section 4.32(l) See Section 4.32(l) See Section 4.32(l)    Flags N 1 Flag every 25 feet N 1 Flag every 100 feet   Pole / Pylon Attached Product Point   of Sale Signs   N 2 per Commercial Center   0-.5 Acres      3 per Commercial Center   .51-1 Acres      4 per Commercial Center   1.01 or greater Acres   N N    Outdoor Advertising      (Off-premise)    (signs per lineal feet) 1    N N 1:600 N    Other (signs per lineal    feet of street frontage) 1    N 1:200 1:200 1:200          Building Signs        Residential 1 1 1 1    Directional, address NL NL NL NL    Awning N NL NL NL    Banner  N See Section 4.32(l) See Section 4.32(l) See Section 4.32(l)    Canopy N NL NL NL    Cornerstone 1 1 1 1    Nameplate 1 1 1 1    Projecting (signs per    street frontage)   N 1 1 1    Roof N N N N    Suspended (per principal    business entrance)   N 1 1 1    Wall 1 2  NL  3  NL  3  NL  3         Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   51    ZONING DISTRICT   SIGN TYPE R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2,   R-3, R-4, R-CD, R-PUD,   R-TH, AG-1   C-1, C-1R, C-1T,    C-2, C-2R, C-3,    C-3R, C-4, C-PUD   M-1, M-1S, M-2 MUD    Window N NL NL NL    Flags   1 N 1 P          Temporary Signs        Construction 1 2  1 1 1    Portable (signs per lineal    feet of street frontage) 1    1:50 1:200 1:200 1:200    Sandwich  N 1 1 1  1  – A full increment, i.e.
an additional 200 feet, is required for each additional sign.
2  – Not permitted for single or two family dwellings, but permitted for multiple   dwelling, multi-family, condominium, and townhouse structures, churches, schools, and similar uses where permitted in these zoning districts.
3 – The number of signs is not   limited, but the size of individual signs and the total coverage of all signs are limited.
See Tables 4.32-3 and 4.32-4.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   52   TABLE 4.33-3 MAXIMUM SIZE OF INIDIVIDUAL SIGNS BY TYPE AND ZONING DISTRICT   N= not permitted.
ALL NUMBERS IN SQUARE FEET UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED    ZONING DISTRICT   SIGN TYPE R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-  2, R-3, R-4, R-CD,    R-PUD, R-TH, AG-1   C-1, C-1R, C-1T,    C-2, C-2R, C-3,    C-3R, C-4, C-PUD   M-1, M-1S, M-2 MUD   Freestanding Signs        Residential 4 4 4 4    Directional, address 4 6 6 6    Banner  N 120 60 N    Flags N 20 N 20   Pole / Pylon Attached Product   Point of Sale Signs   N 10 N 10    Other  N 120 120 1-200 linear ft. of frontage –    50 sq.
ft./side      200-300 linear ft .of frontage – 75   sq.
ft./side       Over 300 – 100 sq.
ft./side          Building Signs        Residential 4 4 4 4    Directional, address 4 6 6 6    Awning (% of surface) N 40% 40% 40%    Banner  N 120 60 N    Canopy (% of surface) N 25% 25% 25%    Cornerstone 4 4 4 4    Nameplate 4 4 4 4    Projecting (signs per    street frontage)   N 60 60 24    Roof N N N N    Suspended (per principal    business entrance)   N 6 6 6    Wall for building    façade <5,000 (sq ft or %                    of façade, whichever is                         less)      48/10%               200/15%               200/15%               60/15%                    Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   53    ZONING DISTRICT   SIGN TYPE R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-  2, R-3, R-4, R-CD,    R-PUD, R-TH, AG-1   C-1, C-1R, C-1T,    C-2, C-2R, C-3,    C-3R, C-4, C-PUD   M-1, M-1S, M-2 MUD               Wall for building >5,000               (% of façade)                  AMENDMENT      N/A   Ordinance #927      7%   Effective 10/5/04      7%         5%    Window N No one window may be   covered in excess of   30%.
NL No one window may be covered in   excess of 30%.
Flags N 20 N 20                        Temporary Signs        Construction 8 32 32 32    Portable  8 64 64 32    Sandwich  N 8 8 8           Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   54      TABLE 4.33-4 MAXIMUM TOTAL AREA OF ALL SIGNS BY ZONING DISTRICT    ZONING DISTRICT   SIGN TYPE R-1A, R-1B, R-1C,    R-2, R-3, R-4, R-CD,    R-PUD, R-TH, AG-1   C-1, C-1R, C-1T,    C-2, C-2R, C-3,    C-3R, C-4, C-PUD   M-1, M-1S, M-2 MUD   MAXIMUM TOTAL AREA OF SIGNS   (Excluding permitted directional,   address; cornerstone, window, and   temporary signs)         Residential 4 sq.
ft. 4 sq.
ft. 4 sq.
ft. 4 sq.
ft.          Signs with conditions for multiple   dwelling, multi-family, condominium,   and townhouse structures, churches,   schools, and similar uses where   permitted in these zoning districts.
10% 10% N/A 10%          Commercial and industrial   developments – as a percentage of the   principal building(s) facing the street(s)   10% 15% 15% 10%                  Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   55   Section 4.34.
RADIO, TELEVISION OWNERS.
All commercial radio, television and   other transmitting or relay antenna towers shall be permitted in any business, commercial,   or industrial district which has access upon a major thoroughfare.
The structural plans   for such towers must be approved by the City Engineering Department and a permit   issued.
Section 4.35.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
(Ordinance #149, Adopted 4/2/74).
Prior to an amendment to the Zoning Map of the City of Moultrie, upon the request of an   owner to prospective developer concerning all zones except R-1A, R-1B, R-PUD, and C-  PUD, the applicant for the proposed amendment shall present to the Planning   Commission a site development plan.
Before approval or denial of such proposed   amendment, the Planning Commission shall review the site development plan for   compatibility with requirements of this Ordinance and may impose other special   requirements on the plan it deems necessary in order to properly evaluate the proposed   amendment.
As a minimum, the Planning Commission may require the following to be   shown on the plan:      a.
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded along with the   present name of the owner.
b.
A topographic map showing the general location of existing property lines,   streets, alleys, buildings, easements, water bodies, and other physical site features   which relate to the development.
c. The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drainage.
d. All proposed uses of the property to be developed, including proposed locations   of structures, streets, and refuse areas.
e. Date, North Point, Scale.
In the event of action on the request by the Planning Commission, subsequent approval   thereof by the Mayor and Council shall constitute rezoning for such planned use only.
Section 4.36.
Any building or manufactured building that is built for use in the City of   Moultrie, Georgia, shall conform to the requirements of the latest edition and   amendments of the ―Southern Standard Building Code‖ and the ―National Electrical   Code.‖      Section 4.37.
SATELLITE RECEIVING ANTENNA.
a.
Satellite Receiving Antenna shall be allowed in all zones.
b.
In all Residential Zones, R-PUD and AG-1 zones the following requirements will   apply:        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   56   1.
Antenna will be erected in a rear yard and the setback requirements from the   property line will be the same, as those required of an accessory building.
2.
Location of the antenna must be approved by the Building Inspection   Department before installation can begin.
c. In all other zoning districts, antenna will be so placed as not to create a hazard to   traffic or public utilities.
d. A property owner who has in place a non-conforming antenna at the effective date   of this Ordinance may continue to maintain the antenna.
Section 4.38.
BED AND BREAKFAST HOMESTAYS.
(Amended/Adopted by Council November 2, 2010—Ordinance #2010-88).
It is the purpose and intent of the Mayor and Council that any Bed and Breakfast   Homestay accommodations differ from apartments, apartment houses, lodging houses,   boarding houses and rooming houses in that they are truly transient accommodations,   with guests rarely staying more than a few days and enjoying at least a morning meal on   the premises.
In addition, the owner or manager of a Bed and Breakfast Homestay must   live on the immediate premises and must be present at all times guests are registered   thereat or present on the premises.
The impact of a Bed and Breakfast Homestay will not   be much greater than that of a private home with frequent house guests, with the   exception of the parking demand.
a.
Bed and Breakfast Homestays may only be permitted as a conditional use granted   to the owner(s) thereof upon approval by the Planning Commission after application by   the owner(s) or potential purchaser pursuant to a written contract of the premises   proposed for use as such and the holding of a public hearing and the subsequent approval   by the Mayor and Council upon finding that:     (1) The proposed use will not be contrary to the purpose of this ordinance;     (2) The proposed use will not be detrimental to the use or development of   adjacent properties or the general neighborhood and will not effect adversely   the health, peace, enjoyment and safety of area residents and businesses;     (3) The proposed use will not constitute a nuisance or hazard because of the   number of persons using the facility, vehicular movement, noise or fume   generation, or the type of activity;     (4) The proposed use will not affect adversely the existing use(s) and the   proposed use will be on a lot of sufficient size to satisfy the space   requirements for said use;     (5) All required parking, development, building, and safety standards will   be met at all times.
All parking will be on the premises or immediately   adjacent thereto.
There will be only one parking space per guestroom plus   one additional space to be utilized by the owner or agent thereof.
The owner        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   57   or manager will at all times be domiciled on the premises and a resident   thereof.
Further, the size and location of proposed parking areas will not have   an adverse impact on adjacent properties or the surrounding neighborhood;     (6) No existing structures, which contribute to the character of the premises   or neighborhood, will be removed in order to provide the required parking;     (7) The proposed number of rooms to be utilized for visitors in the structure   will be compatible with the surrounding land area and is reasonable with   respect to the size of the structure and the size of the lot on which the   structure is located;     (8) The Bed and Breakfast Homestay will be located in a structure or in a   combination of structures on a single lot which was originally constructed for   use by a single-family or an inn and which has a minimum heated floor area   of 2,500 square feet.
The addition of fire escapes, handicap ramps, and wider   doorways may be permitted in order to meet building codes.
All   modifications made will be in keeping with the exterior architectural detailing   of the structure.
Alterations, which return the structure to its original   appearance, may be permitted;     (9) Only one exterior sign not exceeding 8 square feet in area will be used;     (10) Breakfast will be served and individual guestrooms shall not contain   cooking facilities.
Lunch and/or dinner may also be served.
All meals shall   be served on the premises;     (11) Alcoholic beverages will not be sold, provided, dispensed, possessed or   made available, by or to the owner, manager, any agent thereof or any guest   except in compliance with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations;   and,     (12) All Bed and Breakfast Homestays will be subject to and comply with   the hotel/motel tax of the City of Moultrie.
b.
Required registration and reporting forms shall be obtained from the City of   Moultrie.
c.  In addition to all other requirements and restrictions set forth herein, the Mayor   and Council may impose such additional restrictions and require such additional   standards as it deems necessary to protect the health, peace, enjoyment and safety of   residents and businesses in the area and to protect the value and use of properties in the   general neighborhood.
d.  Whenever the Mayor and Council find that the holder of any permit granted   hereunder is not complying with any term, condition, or restriction under which the   permit was granted, it may revoke such permit after giving due notice to all parties   concerned and granting full opportunity for a hearing.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   58    e.  A conditional use permit issued pursuant to this section shall only be to the   applicant(s) at the time of application and shall be non-transferable, non-assignable, non-  delegable or alienable.
f.  A permit issued pursuant to this section shall be void and not subject to   reinstatement except by new application at such time as the holder(s) thereof:     (1) Fail(s) to report or pay for the purposes of hotel/motel taxation for any   period such that said reporting or payment is more than fifteen (15) days past due;     (2) Ceases to operate as a Bed and Breakfast Homestay for a period of six   consecutive calendar months, or any portion thereof;     (3) Voluntarily surrenders the permit issued;      (4) Fails to hold or renew any other license or permit required;     (5) Elects in writing to be released from any term, condition or restriction   required in the permit or any other requirement of a Bed and Breakfast Homestay; or,     (6) Ceases to have an ownership interest in the property upon which the   Bed and Breakfast Homestay is located.
g.  No entity shall advertise in any form or media, or promote, refer to, designate   or utilize the term ―Bed and Breakfast‖ unless such entity holds a valid permit pursuant to   this section.
h.  No activities or may be conducted on the premises unless all the premises and   activity is in compliance with all other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations,   and zoning requirements and all appropriate licenses and permits are issued and   maintained.
i.
In the event additional activities or special events are permitted pursuant to   preceding subsection (h) they shall be subject to the following restrictions:     (1) Hours shall be limited to the following hours:         i.
8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. each day, Monday through Thursday;      ii.
8:00 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. each day, Friday through Saturday;      iii.
8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Sunday; and,      iv.
8:00 a.m. New Years Eve to 1:00 a.m. New Years Day;        (2) At least one off-duty law enforcement officer must be present for traffic   and crowd control for up to each seventy five (75) persons present on the   premises; and,        (3) The number of persons present on the premises remains in compliance   with all federal, state, and local rules, laws, regulations and fire and safety   codes at all times;        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   59    j.
Any violation of the provisions of this article regarding Bed and Breakfast   Homestays, or any other violation of any ordinance contained in this Code relating to Bed   and Breakfast Homestays shall be a misdemeanor.
In addition thereto, any such violation   shall be cause for revocation or nonrenewal of any business license issued thereto.‖         ARTICLE V      NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES      Any lawful use of the land or buildings existing at the date of the passage of this   Ordinance and located in a district in which it would not be permitted as a new use under   the regulations of this Ordinance is hereby declared to be a ―non-conforming use‖ and not   in violation of this Ordinance at the date of adoption of this Ordinance; provided,   however, that a non-conforming use shall be subject to, and the owner shall comply with,   the following regulations:       Section 5.01.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
At any time after the adoption of   this Ordinance, should the City become aware of a non-conforming use, the owner of said   non-conforming use shall be notified by the Building Inspector of the provisions of this   Section, and that his property constitutes a non-conforming use.
Section 5.02.
NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND, CONTINUATION OF USE.
The non-conforming use of land, where no building or structure is involved, which exists   when this Ordinance becomes effective, may be continued provided that:      a.
No such non-conforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended   either on the same or adjoining property.
b.
If such non-conforming use of land or any portion thereof is discontinued or   changed, any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provisions of   this Ordinance.
c. Any sign, billboard, commercial advertising structure, or similar object which   lawfully existed and was maintained at the time of this Ordinance became   effective may be continued, although such use does not conform with the   provisions of this Ordinance; provided further, that all such non-conforming   signs, billboards, commercial outdoor advertising structures and objects, and their   supporting members located in R-1, R-2, and R-3 Districts, shall be completely   removed from the premises within ten (10) years of the passage of this Ordinance   or amendments thereto.
Section 5.03.
CHANGE.
A non-conforming use may be changed to another non-  conforming use of the same or greater restrictions provided no structural changes are   made in the building.
Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   60   conforming use, or to use a permitted in a district of greater restriction, it shall not   thereafter be changed to non-conforming use.
Section 5.04.
EXTENSION PROHIBITED.
A non-conforming use may not be   extended throughout other portions of the building.
If such non-conforming use or   portion thereof is discontinued or changed to a conforming use, any future use of such   building or portion thereof shall be in conformity to the regulations of the district in   which such building is located.
Section 5.05.
MOVING.
No non-conforming use or non-conforming building may be   removed to any other part of a parcel of land upon which same was conducted at the time   of the adoption of this Ordinance.
Section 5.06.
ALTERATIONS.
No building which houses a non-conforming use shall   be enlarged or structurally altered, except to make it comply with requirements of health   and safety laws and ordinances; provided further, that the cost of such work shall not   exceed fifty (50%) percent of the market value of such building or structure at the time   such work is done.
Section 5.07.
RESTORATION.
Any building which houses a non-conforming use   which has been destroyed or damaged by fire, explosion, Act of God, or by public enemy   to the extent of fifty (50%) percent of its market value-exclusive of the foundation at the   time such damage occurred- shall thereafter be made to conform with the provisions of   this Ordinance.
If such damage is less than fifty (50%) percent of its market value before   said damage occurred, exclusive of the foundation, then such structure may be restored to   the same non-conforming use as existed before such damage, provided that such   restoration shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Said   restoration shall be commenced within one (1) year of the date of such partial destruction   and shall be diligently carried on to completion.
Section 5.08.
DISCONTINUANCE OF ABANDONMENT.
Any non-conforming use   of land or building which has become vacant or remains unoccupied owing to   abandonment or discontinuance for a period of twelve (12) months shall thereafter   conform to the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 5.09.
NON-CONFORMING USES—RECORD OF.
Within twelve (12) after   the adoption of this Ordinance, the Building Inspector shall prepare a record of all known   non-conforming uses and occupations of land, buildings, and a structure, including tents   and trailer coaches, existing at the time of such ordinance or amendment.
Any   amendments to said ordinance shall follow the same procedure.
Such records shall contain the names and addresses of the owners of record of non-  conforming use of any occupant, other than the owner; the legal description of the land,   and the nature and extent of use.
Such list shall be available at all times in the Office of   the City Clerk.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   61   Section 5.10.
CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP.
There may be a change   in tenancy, ownership, or management of an existing non-conforming use, provided there   is no change in the nature or character of such non-conforming use.
Section 5.11.
REMOVAL OF NON-CONFORMING USE, BUILDING OR   STRUCTURE.
The Planning Commission may, from time to time, recommend to the   City Council the acquisition of such private property as does not conform in use or   structure to the regulations of the various districts defined in this Ordinance; and the   removal of such use or structure.
The Planning Commission shall submit its reasons and estimates of cost and expenses of   such acquisition and the removal of the non-conformity, and of the probable resale price   of the property to be acquired after removal of the non-conformity as obtained from the   appropriate City department, Board or Commission.
The Planning Commission shall   recommend that portion of the difference between the estimated cost of acquisition and   removal of the non-conformity, and the probable resale price which, in their opinion,   should be assessed against a benefited district.
Whenever the City Council has under advisement the acquisition by purchase,   condemnation or otherwise as provided by law of any such non-conforming building,   structure or use, a preliminary public hearing thereon shall be held before that body;   provided that not less than fifteen (15) days notice of time, place, and purpose of such   public hearing shall first be published in a paper circulating in the City of Moultrie and   that the City Clerk shall send by mail addressed to the respective owners of any such   properties at the addresses given in the last assessment roll, a written notice of the time,   place, and purpose of such hearing; and provide further that, if the cost and expense of   ant portion thereof is to assessed to special district, the City Assessor  shall be directed to   furnish the City Council with tentative special assessment district and the tentative plan   of assessment; the names of the respective owner of the property in such district, and the   addresses thereof in the last assessment roll.
The City Clerk shall also send to the said   respective owner the tentative assessment.
Wherever the City Council, after such public hearing, shall declare by resolution that   proceedings be instituted for the acquisition of any non-conforming building, structure or   use in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia, and the Charter of the ordinances   of the City of Moultrie, the City Clerk shall send by registered mail a certified copy of   such resolution to the respective owners of the properties and to the owners of the   properties in any special district at the addresses given in the last assessment roll.
Upon the passing of title in the private property so acquired to the City of Moultrie, the   City Council shall cause the discontinuance or removal of the non-conforming structure.
The City Council shall thereafter order such property sold or otherwise disposed of, but   only for a conforming use.
The City Council shall confirm the cost and expense of such   project and report any assessable cost to the City Assessor who shall then prepare an   assessment roll in the manner provided for in the Charter and the ordinance of the City of        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   62   Moultrie.
Such an assessment roll may, in the discretion of the City Council, be in one or   more, but not to exceed five (5), annual installments.
Section 5.12.
Classification B-1, B-2, B-3, and B-4 shown on the Zoning Map dated   August 24, 1971, should be referred to as C-1, C-2, C-3, and F-1 referred to as AG-1   under this Ordinance.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   63   ARTICLE VI     PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS     Section 6.01.
PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
In all zoning districts, off-street parking   facilities for the storage and parking of self-propelled motor vehicles for the use of   occupants, employees, and patrons of the buildings hereafter erected, altered, or extended   after the effective date of this Ordinance, shall be provided as herein prescribed.
Such   space shall be maintained and shall not be encroached upon so long as said main building   or structure remains, unless an equivalent number of such spaces are provide elsewhere in   conformance with this Ordinance.
The owner or owners of a building, structure or other   land use requiring off-street parking space must show, to the satisfaction of the Building   Inspector, that he is the record title holder of the property devoted to said principal land   use and of the property proposed for off-street parking use, or that he is the lessee of such   property for a period of not less than twenty-five (25) years.
a.
Area for Parking Space.
For the purpose of this section, three hundred (300)   square feet of usable lot area shall be deemed a parking space for one (1) vehicle,   including access aisle, except that one hundred eighty (180) square feet of lot area   which has a direct means of ingress or egress from an alley or street may also be   deemed a parking space.
b.
Fractional Requirements.
When units or measurements determining number of   required parking spaces result in requirement of a fractional space, any fraction up   to, and including one-half shall be disregarded and fractions over one-half (1/2)   shall require one (1) parking space.
c. Loading Space Limitations.
Loading space as required in Section 6.03 shall not   be construed as supplying off-street parking space.
d. Location of Parking Space for One and Two Family Dwellings.
The off-street   parking facilities required for one and two family dwellings shall be located on   same lot or plot of ground as the building they are intended to serve, and shall   consist of a parking strip, parking apron, and/or garage.
e. Location of Parking Space for Other Land Uses.
The off-street parking   facilities required for all other uses shall be located on the lot or within five   hundred (500) feet of the permitted use requiring such off-street parking, such   distance to be measured along lines of public access to the property between the   nearest point of the parking facility to the building to be served.
f. Usable Floor Area.
For the purpose of this section, usable floor area in the case   of offices, merchandising, or service types of uses, shall mean the gross floor area   used or intended to be used by customers, patrons, clients, patients, owners, and   tenants, les than twenty (20%) percent thereof.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   64      g. Seating Capacity for Seats.
As used in this Article for parking requirements,   shall mean that each twenty (20) inches of seating facilities shall be counted as   one (1) seat, except that where specifications and plans filed with the Building   Inspector specify a certain seating capacity for a particular building, such   specified seating capacity shall be used as the basis for required parking space.
h. Bed.
Whenever the term ―Bed‖ is herein referred to, it shall mean such beds as   are occupied by the patients or guest of the hospital or building in question,   provided, however, that bassinets and incubators shall not be counted as beds.
i.
Similar Uses and Requirements.
In the case of a use not specifically mentioned,   the requirements for off-street parking facilities for use which is so mentioned,   and which said use is similar, shall apply.
j.
Existing Off-Street Parking at Effective Date of Ordinance.
Off-street parking   existing at the effective date of this Ordinance which serves an existing building   or use, shall not be reduced in size less than that required under the terms of this   Ordinance.
k. Collective Provisions.
Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent   collective provisions of off-street parking facilities for two or more buildings or   uses, provided such facilities collectively shall not be less than the sum of the   requirements for the various individual uses computed separately in accordance   with the table under Section 6.01, 1.      l. Table of Off-Street Parking Requirements.
The amount of required off-street   parking space for new uses or buildings, additions thereto, and additions to   existing buildings as specified above shall be determined in accordance with the   following table, and the space so required shall be stated in the application for a   building permit and shall be irrevocably reserved for such use and/or shall comply   with the initial part of this Section.
Use  Required Number   of Parking Spaces   Per Each Unit of Measure as   Follows:   1.  Business or Professional   Offices of Lawyers,   Architects, Engineers, or   similar Allied Professions      1 Two hundred (200) square feet   of usable floor area      2.
Banks 2 Two Hundred (200) square feet   of usable floor area      3.
Barber Shops 2 Each barber      4.
Beauty Parlor 3 Each beauty shop operator        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   65   Use  Required Number   of Parking Spaces   Per Each Unit of Measure as   Follows:   5.
Bowling Alleys 8 Each bowling lane plus required   parking for any bar, restaurant,   or assembly space attached to a   bowling alley      6.
Churches 1 Four (4) seats based on   maximum seating capacity in   the main place of assembly   therein.
7.
Dance Halls, Exhibition   Halls, Pool and Billiard   Halls, Skating Rinks,   Lodge Halls, And   Assembly Halls without   fixed seats      1 Forty (40) square feet of usable   floor space with a minimum of   ten (10) parking spaces   8.
Drive-In Banks 3 Each teller window      9.
Drive-In Eating   Establishment       1 Twenty-five (25) square feet of   usable floor space with a   minimum of forty (40) spaces   parking      10.
Elementary Schools,   Junior High Schools   1 Two (2) teachers, employees, or   administrators in addition to the   requirements of the auditorium   or assembly hall      11.
Establishment other than   Drive-In establishments   for sale or consumption   on the premises of   beverages, food, or   refreshments      1 One hundred (100) square feet   of usable floor area   12.
Furniture and appliance,   household equipment   repair shops, showroom   of a plumber, decorator,   electrician or similar   trade; clothing and shoe   repair, laundry, motor   vehicle salesroom,   1 Eight hundred (800) square feet   of usable floor area, exclusive   of the usable floor area   occupied in processing or   manufacturing (for which   requirements see industrial   establishments below)        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   66   Use  Required Number   of Parking Spaces   Per Each Unit of Measure as   Follows:   hardware stores,   wholesale stores, and   machinery sales      13.
Hospitals 1.5 Each bed       14.
Hotels & Motels,   excluding restaurants,   Assembly rooms, Service   Establishments, and retail   stores      1 Guest bedroom   15.
Industrial   establishments,, including   manufacturing research   and testing laboratories,   creameries, bottling   works, printing,   plumbing, or electrical   workshops, warehouses,   and storage buildings      1 Two (2) employees computed   on the basis of the greatest   number of persons employed at   any one period during the day   or night   16.
Laundromat and/or Dry   Cleaning Center   1 Each combination of washer-  dryer machine plus one (1)   space      17.
Libraries and Museums 1 Two hundred (200) square feet   of floor space      18.
Mortuary Establishments,   Funeral Homes   1 Seventy-five (75) square feet of   floor space in the slumber   rooms, parlors, or individual   funeral service rooms.
The   requirements for the Chapel are   the same as those for a church      19.
Motor Vehicle Car Wash     a. Self-service operation                  4 Each motor vehicle wash   establishment.
In addition, off-  street automobile waiting spaces   shall be in accordance with   Section 6.04      b.
Other than self service   operation   4 Car wash establishment for   employee parking, in addition,        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   67   Use  Required Number   of Parking Spaces   Per Each Unit of Measure as   Follows:   off-street automobile waiting   spaces shall be in accordance   with Section 6.04      20.
Fraternities, dormitories 1 Two (2) beds      21.
Professional offices of   Doctors, Dentists   1 One hundred (100) square feet   of usable floor area      22.
Residential-Single or   Two Family Dwelling       1 Dwelling unit   23.
Residential-Multiple   Dwelling      3 Every two (2) dwelling units   24.
Retail store, except as   otherwise specified   herein      1 One hundred fifty (150) square   feet of usable floor space      25.
Sanitariums, convents,   homes for the aged,   convalescent homes,   children’s homes      1 Two (2) beds   26.
Senior  High Schools  1 Each teacher, employee, or   administrator in addition to the   requirements of the auditorium   or assembly.
If no auditorium   or assembly increase to 3 for   each 2 teachers.
27.
Stadiums and Sports   Arenas   1 Four (4) feet over seven (7) feet   of benches      28.
Tourist Home  1 Guest bedroom      29.
Automobile Service   Stations   4 Each station plus one (1)   additional space for each   gasoline pump above three      30.
Service garages, Auto   Sales Rooms, Auto   Repair, Collision or   buffing shops   1 Eight hundred (800) square feet   of usable floor area plus one (1)   space for each two (2)   employees computed on the        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   68   Use  Required Number   of Parking Spaces   Per Each Unit of Measure as   Follows:   basis of the maximum  number   of employees on duty at any one   time, plus one (1) space for each   of the maximum number of   salesman on duty at any one   time      31.
Shopping Center in C-  PUD Districts or other   Commercial Areas (if   over 35,000 square feet   of gross floor area)      1 200 square feet of gross floor   area   Shopping Center in C-  PUD Districts or other   commercial areas (if   35,000 square feet or less   of gross floor area)      1 235 square feet of gross floor   area         m. Joint Use.
Parking spaces already provided to meet off-street parking   requirements for theaters, stadiums, auditoriums, and other places of public   assembly, stores, office buildings and industrial establishments lying within   fifteen hundred (1,500) feet of a church as measured along lines of public access,   and that are not normally use between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on   Sundays, and are made available for other parking, may be used to meet not more   than seventy-five (75%) percent of the off-street parking requirements of a   church.
n. Housing for the Elderly Parking Requirements.
Amount of required parking   shall be a minimum of one (1) space per unit; applicable only in the downtown   commercial district as shown on the City’s Comprehensive Zoning Map and   defined by the City Planning Commission.
Section 6.02.
OFF-STREET PARKING DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
All   parking lots established in the Off-Street Parking Districts A, B, and C shall be subject to   the following general requirements:      1.
The construction of any parking lot shall be in accordance with the   requirements of the Building Code and provisions of this Ordinance and such   construction shall be completed and approved by the Building Department   and the Engineering Department before actual use of the property as a   parking lot.
Plans for the development of any parking lot must be submitted        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   69   in triplicate to the Building Department prepared at a scale not less than fifty   (50) feet equals one (1) inch and indicating existing and proposed grades,   drainage, water mains, and sewers, surfacing, and basement materials to be   used and the general layout of the proposed parking lot.
The plans are to be   prepared in a presentable form by person or persons competent in such work.
2.
All such parking lots shall be hard surfaced with a pavement having an   asphalt or concrete binder, and shall be graded and drained to dispose of   surface water, which might accumulate within or upon such area.
No surface   water from such parking area shall be permitted to drain in to adjoining   private property.
3.
All illumination for or on such parking lots shall be deflected away from   adjacent residential areas and shall be installed in such a manner as to allow   the reduction of the amount of light in other normal parking hours each day.
The source of illumination in all parking lots abutting a residential area shall   not be more than thirteen (13) feet above the parking lot surface.
4.
Side yards shall be maintained for a surface not less than six (6) feet between   the side lot lines of the adjoining residential lots and the parking area.
The   depth of the front yard or setback line from the street as established for   houses in any block in any given residential area shall be continued and made   applicable to parking space in such residential area and it shall be unlawful to   use the space between such setback line and the sidewalk for the parking of   motor vehicles; provided, however, that the barrier specified in Section 6.02   (5) below, shall be located in the setback line as herein required.
5.
Whenever such parking area joins residential property and/or a residential   street or alley, a protected wall shall be erected and maintained between the   required yard space and the area to be used for parking in accordance with   Section 4.29.
Location of said wall facing a residential street shall be   determined with such regard to side yard and building setback requirements   adjoining the residential district as may required in the particular   commercial, office or industrial zoning district.
The said wall shall be   constructed in such a manner that the first twelve (12) feet, starting at the   street, shall be two (2) feet in height, the second twelve (12) feet back from   the street will be four (4) feet in height, and the balance shall be six (6) feet   as indicated above.
Bumper guards of a type described in Section 6.02 (6)   below shall be provided to prevent vehicles said wall or shrubbery.
6.
In all cases where such parking lots abut public sidewalks, concrete curbing,   at least six (6) inches high, set end to end, shall be placed so that a motor   vehicle cannot be driven or parked with any part thereon extending within   two (2) feet of a public sidewalk.
In all cases where necessary for the   protection of the public and the adjoining properties, streets, and sidewalks,   curbs as described above, shall be installed.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   70      7.
Adequate means of ingress and egress shall be provided and shown on the   plan submitted.
Minimum shall be fifteen (15) feet wide for one way and 24   feet wide for two-way traffic.
8.
Where street setback lines are provided, by ordinance or establish through the   adoption of a Street or Traffic Plan, such setback lines shall be maintained.
9.
All land between the boundaries of the parking lot and the barriers referred to   in this Section, as well as the surface of the parking lot area, shall be kept   free from tall grass, weeds, rubbish, refuse and debris, and shall be   landscaped to conform with the neighborhood.
10.
No repairs or service to vehicles and no display of vehicles for purpose of   sale shall be carried on or permitted on such premises.
Section 6.03.
OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
On the same premises   with every building, structure or part thereof, erected and occupied for manufacturing,   storage, warehouse, truck freight terminal, goods display, department store, wholesale   store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses similarly   involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles, materials, or merchandise, there shall be   provided and maintained on the lot adequate space for standing, loading and unloading   services in order to avoid undue interference with public use of the streets and alleys.
Such loading and unloading space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall be an   area ten (10) feet by fifty (50) feet, within fifteen (15) foot height clearance, and shall be   provided according to the following schedule:       Gross Floor Area in Square Feet  Loading and Unloading Spaces Required in   Terms of Square Feet of Usable Floor Area       0 -  2,000 NONE      2,000 – 5,000 One (1) Space      5,000 – 20,000 One (1) Space plus one (1) space for each   20,000square feet in excess of 20,000 square   feet      20,000 – 100,000 Four (4) spaces plus one (1) for each 20,000   square feet in excess of 20,000 square feet                    Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   71   Gross Floor Area in Square Feet  Loading and Unloading Spaces Required in   Terms of Square Feet of Usable Floor Area      100,000 – 500,000 Five (5) spaces plus one (1) space for each   40,000 square feet in excess of 100,000   square feet      Over 500,000 Fifteen (15) spaces plus one (1) space for each   80,000 square feet in excess of 500,000   square feet            Section 6.04.
OFF-STREET WAITING AREA FOR DRIVE-THROUGH   FACILITIES.
On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof   erected and occupied for the purpose of serving customers in their automobiles by means   of a service window or similar arrangement where the automobile engine is not turned   off, there shall be provided three (3) off-street waiting spaces for each service window.
An off-street waiting space is defined as an area nine (9) feet wide by eighteen (18) feet   long.
Self-service motor vehicle car wash establishments shall provide four (4) off-street   waiting spaces for each washing stall.
Motor vehicle car wash establishments, other than   self-service, shall provide twenty-five (25)-waiting spaces for each washing stall.
A   drying lane fifty (50) feet long shall also be provided at the exit of each washing stall in   order to prevent undue amounts of water from collecting on the public street and thereby   creating a traffic hazard.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   72    ARTICLE VII      R-1A, R-1B, AND R-1C   SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS      “Section 7.01.
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
The Single Family Residential   District is established as a district in which the principal use of land is for single   family dwellings.
In promoting the general purpose of this Ordinance, the specific   intent of this Section is:   a.
To encourage the construction of, and the use of land for, single-family dwellings.
b.
To prohibit business, commercial, or industrial uses of the land, and to prohibit   any other uses which would substantially interfere with development or   maintenance of single family dwellings.
c.  To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as   new uses under the provisions of this Ordinance.
d. To discourage any land use which would generate traffic on minor or local streets,   other than normal traffic associated with serving the residences on those streets.
e.  To discourage any use which, because of its character or size, would create   requirements, costs for public services such as fire and police protection, water   supply, and sewage, substantially in excess of normal requirements, and costs if   developed solely for single family dwellings.
f. To permit the continuation of agricultural uses of open lands in such a manner   that their future use, as desirable residential areas, will be guaranteed.‖      Ordinance #2007-14 Amendment 7/24/07      Section 7.02.
PERMITTED USES.
a.
Single family detached dwellings.
b.
Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto, provided that there is   adequate access to all required off-street parking areas and that there is no parking   in the required front yard.
Board of Appeals may on a proper application grant a variance from such   requirements for reasons and in circumstances provided by general state law.
(Note: This paragraph was amended by Ordinance #143, adopted 2/19/74)           Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   73   c. Public, parochial and private kindergarten, elementary, intermediate and/or high   schools offering courses in general education, not operated for profit.
d. Publicly owned and operated buildings, libraries, parks, parkways and   recreational facilities.
e. Public hospitals, but not including institutions for the care of the feeble-minded or   insane, provided that the hospital is adjacent to a major or secondary thoroughfare   as defined on the City’s Comprehensive Development Plan.
f. Nursery schools, day nurseries, and child care centers; provided that for each   child so cared for, there is provided and maintained a minimum of one hundred   (100) square feet of outdoor play area.
Such play area shall have a total minimum   area of at least one thousand (1,000) square feet.
g. Private non-commercial recreational areas.
h. Municipal buildings and uses.
i.
Public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings, electric transformer   stations, and sub-stations, and gas regulator stations, but not including service or   storage yard, when operating requirements necessitate the locating within the   district in order to serve the immediate vicinity.
j.
Temporary buildings for use incidental to construction work for a period not to   exceed one (1) year, subject to renewal.
k. Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted uses,   when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade, or   occupation.
One (1) private garage for each residential lot in which there are   housed not more than four (4) automobiles, not more than one (1) of which may   be a commercial vehicle not larger than a regularly manufactured pick-up or panel   truck of 7,500 lbs.
gross vehicle weight capacity, which shall be housed within a   garage and provided said commercial vehicle is owned and operated by a member   of a family which resides in said living unit.
Provided further, that all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as   required in Section 4.16.      l. Home occupations as limited and defined in ARTICLE II.
m. Off-street parking and loading in accordance with the requirements of ARTICLE   VI of this Ordinance.
n. Residential Planned Unit Development, in accordance with the provisions of   ARTICLE X.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   74      Section 7.03.
AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
(In accordance with the attached Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII).
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   75   ARTICLE VIII      R-2, TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT     Section 8.01.
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
The Two Family Residential District is   established as a district in which the principal use of land is for single and two family   dwellings based upon a plan to make the most appropriate use of scattered parcels of land   within neighborhood or on major thoroughfares.
The specific intent of this Article is to   insure that only such residential uses as can be properly designed and built will be   allowed in this district, so as not to over-crowd the land, cause parking or traffic   congestion, or to have injurious effects on adjacent single family residential property.
Section 8.02.
PERMITTED USES.
In all R-2 Districts, no building or land, except as   otherwise provided in this Ordinance, shall be erected or used except for one or more of   the following specified uses:      a.
Any use permitted in the R-1A and R-1B, Single Family Residential District, as   enumerated in Section 7.02 of this Ordinance.
b. Two-Family Dwellings      c. Off-Street parking and loading in accordance with the requirements of ARTICLE   VI of this Ordinance.
d. Residential Planned Unit Development, in accordance with the provisions of   ARTICLE X.
Section 8.03.
USES PERMITTED AFTER SPECIAL APPROVAL OF PLANNING   COMMISSION.
a.
Professional Offices to include the following occupations:  Dentists, attorneys,   accountants, architects, engineers, doctors, and other related medical facilities   not including veterinarians.
b.
Office uses resulting from any of the following occupations: Executive,   administrative, accounting, insurance, realty, clerical, stenographic and drafting.
The above uses shall not be construed to eliminate the offices of recognized   manufacturer’s agents.
There shall be no accessory structures permitted.
Section 8.04.
AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
(In accordance with the attached Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII).
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   76   ARTICLE IX      R-3, MULTIPLE DWELLING RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT     Section 9.01.
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
The R-3, Multiple dwelling Residential   District is designed to permit residential use of land with various types of multiple   dwellings and related uses.
This area would be located near major streets for good   accessibility and to be designed to complement adjacent single family areas.
Various   types and sizes of residential accommodations for ownership or rental, would thereby be   provided to meet the needs of the different age and family groups in the community   without over-taxing existing community facilities, utilities, or services.
Section 9.02.
PERMITTED USES.
In all R-3 Districts, no building or land, except as   otherwise provided in this Ordinance, shall be erected or used except for more than one   of the following specified uses:      a.
All uses permitted in R-2 District, subject to all requirements for such uses in   zoning districts where first permitted.
b.
Multiple Dwellings, including apartment houses, row or town house dwellings,   provided that in any multiple dwelling structure, no more than ten (10%) percent   of the dwelling units may be efficiency units, and further provided that in no case   may the density of such multiple dwellings exceed 13.5 dwelling units per   dwelling units per acre not with-standing any other provisions of this Ordinance.
(NOTE: This paragraph amended by Ordinance #143, adopted 2/19/74.)
c. Special Approval: Hospitals, sanitariums, rest rooms, residences for aged persons   and orphanages subject to the following requirements:        1.
Buildings designed for or occupied by any of these uses shall be located at   least fifty (50) feet from any exterior property line and shall be located on a   site having an area of at least two (2) acres with the exception of elderly   housing located in the downtown commercial district as shown on the City’s   Comprehensive Zoning Map and defined by the City Planning Commission   where the property size shall be at least one (1) acre.
2.
The building height shall be limited to two and one-half stories or thirty-five   (35) feet, which may be increased to a maximum of five (5) stories by the   provisions of an additional five (5) feet of setback from all exterior property   lines for each additional story.
3.
The proposed site shall front upon a major street of not less than sixty (60)   foot right-of-way and provide direct access to all parking and loading areas   directly from said street.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   77   4.
Density requirements for property in the Downtown Commercial District   designated for the use and occupancy by the elderly will allow thirty-four (34)   units per acre; or two and one-half (2 ½) times the density requirements for   other zones.
d. Community garages serving the principal residential building, containing space   for no more than two (2) passenger vehicles for each dwelling unit in the principal   building in the lot.
e. Maintenance and management buildings to serve the multiple dwellings.
f. Private swimming designed and operated only for occupants.
g. Signs when located on the same lot pertaining to the use of the particular building   or buildings, provided that they shall not over-hang any public right-of-way; shall   not be illuminated; shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area; shall not   project higher than one (1) story or twenty (20) feet above the level of the ground,   which ever is lower; and shall not indicate any other information except the name   or address of the building or management thereof.
For community facility uses, a   bulletin board with an area not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in area nor   located closer to eight (8) feet to any property in a Single-Family Residential   Zone is also permitted.
Signs for off-street parking areas, open or closed, are   permitted, providing they do not exceed two (2) square feet in area and are not   higher than seven (7) feet above curb level.
h. Residential Planned Unit Development, in accordance with the provisions of   ARTICLE X.      i. Off-street parking and loading in accordance with the requirements of ARTICLE   VI.
In connection with all the above uses, the following requirements shall be complied with   before any building permit is issued.
The developer shall furnish the Building Inspector   with two (2) copies of the letter of intent and the development plans for any use permitted   in the R-3 District, drawn to scale, showing the general location of all buildings, roads,   parking areas, open areas, sidewalks and street lighting.
Typical elevations of all four (4)   sides of the proposed buildings and proposed number of dwelling units by type (e.g.,   number of bedrooms) shall be submitted.
Two (2) copies of the proposed protective   covenants shall also be submitted whereby the developer proposed to regulate the   development if the property is to be subdivided or if requested by the Building Inspector.
Only those uses specifically permitted in this Section shall be allowed in an R-3 District.
In order to clarify the type of permitted uses, the following uses, among others, are   specifically prohibited.
1.
Rental offices, as accessory to a multiple dwelling, row or town house   dwelling or efficiency projects.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   78   2.
Tourist home, lodging house, or boarding home.
3.
Motel or hotel      Section 9.03.
USES PERMITTED AFTER SPECIAL APPROVAL OF PLANNING   COMMISSION.
a.
Professional Offices.
Section 9.04.
AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
(In accordance with the attached Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII).
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   79   ARTICLE IX-A      R-4, RESIDENTIAL (MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT)     Section 9-A-01.
USES PERMITTED.
a.
Any use permitted in a Residential R-3 District.
b. Multi-Family Dwellings.
c. PERMISSIBLE ON APPEAL AFTER APPROVAL OF PLANNING   COMMISSION AND THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
1.
Any use permissible on appeal in an R-3 District      2.
Uses permitted in C-2 Districts      In R-4 Districts, where the Planning Commission permits the construction of any   structures, other than a dwelling, requirements will be the same as those of a C-2 District.
NOTE: This Article was added to the Zoning Ordinance by Ordinance #102, dated   11/21/72.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   80   ARTICLE IX-B      R-CD, CONDOMINIUM DISTRICT     Section 9-B.01.
CONDOMINIUM DISTRICT.
A condominium development is one,   which permits the sale of individual living units, intended for independent ownership and   use, together with an undivided interest in the common elements appertaining to that unit.
All condominium developments permitted under this Article must be in strict compliance   with the ―Georgia Condominium Act‖ (O.C.G.A.
Section 44-3-70 et seq.).
In permitting   the construction of condominiums, the City Council intends:      a.
To encourage home ownership in the City of Moultrie.
b.
To increase the variety of dwellings types that are available to the local housing   market.
c. To encourage the development of small parcels of property in older areas of the   City.
Section 9-B.02.
PERMITTED USES.
a. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any permitted use.
b.
Customary home occupations.
c. Signs and outdoor advertising in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning   Ordinance.
d. Community facilities including electric transformer station, gas regulator station,   or telephone exchange, private golf courses, and club houses, neighborhood   recreation centers or swimming pools, non-commercial clubs or lodges and public   uses.
e. Condominiums.
f. Private and public schools.
Section 9-B.03.
AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
a.
In accordance with the attached schedule of regulations, ARTICLE XVIII.
b.
In addition to the requirements stated in ARTICLE XVIII, all condominium   developments in R-CD zone must comply with the following additional standards:      1.
A condominium development shall be located on a site that measures a   minimum of one-half acre in area.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   81      2.
Each interior condominium lot shall be at least twenty-four (24) feet in width.
Each condominium located on a corner shall be at least forty-nine (49) feet in   width.
Each interior condominium lot that is intended to be at the end of a   row of condominiums shall be at least thirty-four (34) feet wide.
3.
The setback from an interior side lot line shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet   and from a street side lot line shall be a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet for   the condominium which is located at the end of a row of condominiums.
4.
An accessory building may abut an accessory building located on an adjacent   lot in the condominium district.
5.
On sites that equal or exceed one (1) acre in area, a condominium   development shall not exceed seven (7) dwelling units (lots) per net acre.
Net   acreage excludes land area devoted to street and alley right-of-way, and   holding ponds.
6.
No more than four (4) condominiums shall be built in a row having the same   building line.
In setting forth this requirement, the City Council intends to   discourage the creation of long unbroken lines of condominiums.
In a   condominium complex having more than four (4) dwelling units, the required   minimum offset in the building line shall be three (3) feet.
A row or grouping   of condominiums shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) feet in length.
7.
Every condominium lot shall front on a public street.
8.
No more than one (1) single-family residence shall be located on a   condominium lot.
9.
A plat showing property to be subdivided in to condominium shall be   prepared in accord with all requirements of the Subdivision Ordinance.
The   plat shall be submitted to the Moultrie/Colquitt County Planning Commission   for its review and approval.
10.  a.
Two  (2) paved off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each   condominium.
b.
The off-street parking for a condominium may have direct access to an   alley only if the alley has a minimum pavement width of twenty (20) feet   and a minimum right-of-way width of thirty- (30) feet.
When a   condominium sub-division will occupy a portion of a block, the developer   shall pave the alley to whichever intersecting street is lower in elevation,   relative to the lots.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   82   c. Each condominium lot shall have its own parking space -with direct   access to a public alley or street.
Parking spaces and driveways are   permitted on the front yard on major thoroughfares as shown on the City’s   major thoroughfare map if a setback of 35 feet is maintained and the front   yard property landscaped as determined by the Planning Commission.
Otherwise, parking shall be in the rear.
The minimum setback in all   instances shall be 35 feet.
11.
Firewalls construction for a condominium shall extend from the foundation to   and through the roof.
The wall shall be an eight- inch fire-rated masonry wall.
Section 9-B.04.
PRELIMINARY REVIEW.
Preliminary review is an aid to both the   developer and the City.
Under this procedure, a developer provides the information,   which is described in Section 9-B.05 below, and the Planning Commission then acts on   the information provided.
This review is intended to then serve as a guide for the   immediate inspection of the Planning Commission, subject to a thorough study and   analysis.
Changes and additions, which may have to be made before a mutual agreement   is reached, can be made at such time without excessive engineering costs to the   developer.
Section 9-B.05.
PROCEDURE FOR PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
An application   in writing shall be submitted in triplicate to the Planning Commission to the owner or his   authorized representative for approval of a preliminary plan of any proposed   development anticipated under the condominium district provision of this Ordinance.
Three (3) copies of the preliminary plan at a scale of not more than one hundred (100)   feet to the inch, showing the following, shall be submitted by the applicant.
a.
The title under which the proposed development is to be reached and the name of   the present owner.
b.
Names of owners of adjacent property.
c. A topographic map showing the general location of existing property lines,   streets, alleys, buildings, easements, swamps, watercourses, and other physical   site features which relate to the development.
d. The proposed methods of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drainage.
e. All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan,   including landscaping.
f. The location and layout of all proposed residential units.
g. Date, north point, and graphic scale.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   83   h. The developer shall furnish to the Planning Commission a statement indicating   the proposed use to which the development will be put, along with the description   of the type of residential building and number of units contemplated.
Upon   receiving approval of the preliminary plan, the developer may proceed to develop   the final plan.
No building permit shall be issued until approval of the final plan   is given by the Planning Commission.
Section 9-B.06.
PROCEDURE FOR FINAL PLAN APPROVAL.
An application in   writing shall be submitted in triplicate to the Planning Commission by the owner of his   authorized representative for approval of the final plan for any proposed development   anticipated under the condominium district provisions of this Ordinance.
Eight (8) copies   of the final plan, at a scale not less than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, showing the   following information shall be submitted with the application:      a.
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded, the legal   description of the land to be developed, the name of the present owner, and the   name and address of the technical author of the plan.
b.
Names and owners of adjacent property and general information as to boundaries   thereof as well as the existing zoning on such tracts.
c. A topographic area map showing the location of existing property lines, the   adjoining streets, alleys, and other physical site features which relate to the   development.
d. The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drains and   other engineering data required by the Planning Commission to clearly indicate   the general design of said utility services.
It shall be mandatory that the   development uses the City water and sewer services and that all streets in the   development be paved.
e. The size and capacity of existing sewer, water, storm drains, and thoroughfares in   the area.
f. The location and dimensions to the nearest foot of lots, building lines, alleys,   easements, parks, and other public properties on the property to be developed.
g. All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan,   including landscaping.
h. The location and layout of proposed residential units.
i.
Date, north point, and graphic scale.
j.
Proposed development restrictions and/or protective covenants to be imposed   upon the property after development.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   84      k. Bearings and distances of all courses of the exterior boundary of the proposed   development and its area in acres to the third decimal place.
Section 9-B.07.
That the schedule of regulations in the ARTICLE XVIII be amended by   inserting information hereto attached as ―Exhibit A‖, relating to the lot size setback,   building height, minimum yard setback per yard in feet, minimum floor area with   dwelling unit and parking requirements between the information contained in the table   for R-PUD and C-1 and by adding the foot notes shown on said exhibit on the bottom of   the schedule of regulations and after foot note q respectively.
Section 9-B.08.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby   repealed.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   85                        EXHIBIT A    SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS      Minimum Size   Lot at Setback   Maximum Height   of Building   Maximum Yard Setback Per   Yard in Ft. (unobstructed)  Minimum   Floor Area   Per Dwelling   Unit*   Maximum   Lot   Coverage   in Percent   Parking   Require  ments  Zoning District Area   Total   Width   in Feet   In   Stories  In Feet Front   Least   One   Total   of Two  Rear   R-CD Condominium District  2,800   24,  34,   or 49  3  30   30 1,000  qq      qq Refer to Section 9-B.03.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   86   ARTICLE X      R-PUD RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT   DISTRICT     Section 10.01.
RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
It   is the intention of this section to provide areas of sufficient size and allowing reasonable   flexibility in design and orientation for the establishment of a structure, or group of   structures, which includes multiple dwellings designed in a planned unit development of   more than one building on a given site.
The requirements of the area, height, bulk, and   placement regulations, as they are usually applicable to individual buildings and   individual lots of record, would in certain cases of large scale development results   affording less protection to the public health, safety, and welfare than if a measure of   flexibility were permitted.
The permitting of these planned unit developments as special   and particular land use can, in certain cases, increase the desirability and convenience to   the residents or occupants of the planned unit development without causing adverse   effects on adjoining properties.
Therefore, the Zoning Ordinance regulations relative to area, height, bulk, and placement   may, in the Planned Unit Development District, be modified by the Planning Commission   in the case for a large scale development which, in the judgment of the Planning   Commission, provides adequate open space and improvements for circulation, recreation,   education, light, air, and service needs of the tract when fully developed, provided that in   no case may the density of the proposed planned unit development exceed 13.5 dwelling   units per acre and provided further that the minimum site size for the residential planned   unit development is three (3) acres.
(NOTE: Density amended by Ordinance #143, dated   2/19/74)      Within the Residential Planned Unit Development District, the following regulations   shall apply:      Section 10.02.
PERMITTED USES.
In all R-PUD Districts, no building or land,   except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, shall be erected or used except for one or   more of the following specified uses:      a.
Multiple dwellings, including apartment houses, row, or town house dwellings.
b.
Community garages serving the principal residential building, containing space   for no more than two (2) passenger vehicles for each dwelling unit in the principal   building on the lot.
c. Maintenance and management buildings to serve the multiple dwellings.
d. Private swimming pools designed and operated only for occupants of the principal   multiple dwellings and their personal guests.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   87   e. Signs when located on the same lot pertaining to the use of the particular building   or buildings, provided they shall not overhang any public right-of-way; shall not   be illuminated; shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area; shall not project   higher than one story or twenty (20) feet above the level of the ground, whichever   is lower; and shall not indicate any information except the name or address of the   building or management thereof.
f. Community buildings in the nature of club houses, libraries, reading rooms,   community facilities, such as laundry rooms and wash rooms and entertainment   centers provided that all of the uses listed in this section are designed and   operated only for the occupants of the multiple dwellings which are the principal   buildings and their personal guests.
g. Mobile home parks, provided that the density of the proposed mobile home park   shall not exceed ten (10) dwelling units per acre and provided further that the   minimum size of the proposed mobile home park shall be not less than five (5)   acres, and meet design standards as approved by City Council.
h. Accessory buildings and uses as defined in ARTICLE II of this Ordinance.
i. Off-street parking and loading in accordance with requirements of ARTICLE VI.
j.
Only those uses specifically permitted in this section shall be allowed in an R-  PUD District.
In order to clarify the type of permitted uses, the following uses,   among others, are Specifically Prohibited.
1.
Rental offices, as accessory to a multiple dwelling, row or town house   dwelling, or efficiency unit projects.
2.
Tourist home lodging house or boarding home.
3.
Motel or hotel.
Section 10.03.
PRELIMINARY REVIEW.
Preliminary review is recommended as an   aid to both the developer and the City.
Under this procedure, a developer provides the   information, which is described below, and the Planning Commission then acts on the   information provided.
This review is intended to then serve as a guide for the immediate   inspection of the Planning Commission, subject to a thorough study and analysis.
Changes and additions, which may have to be made before a mutual agreement is   reached, can be made at such time without excessive engineering cost to the developer.
Section 10.04.
PROCEDURE FOR PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
An application   in writing shall be submitted in triplicate to the Planning Commission by the owner or his   authorized representative for approval of a preliminary plan of any proposed   development anticipated under the Residential Planned Unit Development District,   provision of this Ordinance.
Three (3) copies of the Preliminary Plan at a scale not more        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   88   than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, showing the following, shall be submitted with   the application:      a.
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded and the name of   the present owner.
b.
Names of owners of adjacent property.
c. A topographic map showing the general location of existing property lines,   streets, alleys, buildings, easements, swamps, watercourses, and other physical   site features which relate to the development.
d. The proposed methods of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drainage.
e. All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan.
f.  Date, north point, and graphic scale.
The developer shall furnish to the Planning Commission a statement indicating the   proposed use to which the development will be put, along with the description of the type   of residential building and number of units contemplated.
Upon receiving approval of the   Preliminary Plan, the developer may proceed to develop the Final Plan.
No building   permit shall be issued until approval of the Final Plan is given by the Planning   Commission.
Section 10.05.
PROCEDURE FOR FINAL PLAN APPROVAL.
An application in   writing shall be submitted in triplicate to the Planning Commission by the owner or his   authorized representative for approval of the Final Plan for any proposed development   anticipated under the Residential Planned Unit Development District of this Ordinance.
Eight (8) copies of the Final Plan, of a scale not less than one hundred (100) feet to the   inch, showing the following information shall be submitted with the application:      a.
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded, the legal   description of the land to be developed, the name of the present owner, and the   name and address of the technical author of the plan.
b.
Names and owners of adjacent property and general information as to boundaries   thereof as well as the existing Zoning on such tracts.
c. A topographic area map showing the location of existing property lines, the   adjoining streets, alleys, buildings, drains, easements, swamps, water courses,   and other physical site features which relate to the development.
d. The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drains, and   other engineering data required by the Planning Commission to clearly indicate   the general design of said utility services.
It shall be mandatory that the        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   89   developments use the City water and sewer services and that all streets in the   development be paved.
e. The size and capacity of existing sewer, water, storm drains, and thoroughfares in   the area.
f. The location and dimension to the nearest foot of lots, building lines, alleys,   easements, parks, and other public property to be developed.
All lots in a   preliminary plan shall be designated by consecutive numbers beginning with the   number one, (1).
g. All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan.
h. Date, north point, and graphic scale.
i.
Proposed development restrictions and/or protective covenants to be imposed   upon the property after development.
j. Bearings and distances of all courses of the exterior boundary of the proposed   development and its area in acres to the third decimal place.
k. The developer shall furnish the Planning Commission a statement indicating the   proposed use to which the development will be put, along with a description of   the type of residential buildings and number of units contemplated, so as to   reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards, or congestion of   population.
Section 10.06.
AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
(In accordance with the attached Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII of this   Ordinance.)
Section 10.07.
MOBILE HOMES.
Any mobile home located within the City limits of   the City of Moultrie for a period exceeding forty-eight (48) hours exclusive of a sales or   manufacturing lot, shall be located within a mobile home park meeting requirements and   minimum standards set forth herein.
Mobile homes shall meet the following general   requirements of the codes of the City of Moultrie.
a.
Health.
If the use of City water and/or sewage is waived by the Mayor and   Council, prior to the allowance of permanent occupancy of a mobile home site   within the City of Moultrie, such mobile site shall be connected with an approved   water source and an approved sewerage disposal system in such a manner as to   comply with the Georgia Department of Public Health and Georgia Water Quality   Control Board regulations and the Georgia Health Code, and the Colquitt County   Public Health requirements, which codes are insofar as they are applicable,   hereby made apart of these regulations to the same extent as though herein set out   in full.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   90      b.
Occupancy.
Occupancy of a mobile home within the jurisdiction of this   regulation shall be as follows:      1.
Mobile home park.
In the event, a mobile home is placed in a mobile home   park; it shall conform to the site arrangements for its site with respect to   location, utilities, and registration.
It shall be the responsibility of the park   operator to notify the Building Inspector of the mobile home prior to allowing   its occupancy.
It shall be his further responsibility to maintain a dated log   book indicating the name of the mobile home owner, the name of the   occupants, its license, of so equipped, and whether it has a MHMA, TCA, OR   GMHI seal for each mobile home within the park.
Such records shall be   available for inspection personnel or other City Officials.
2.
Temporary occupancy of a mobile home.
If in the event a mobile home   located outside of a mobile home park is approved as a temporary residence   by the Planning Commission, an occupancy permit stating the case number   and the duration of the occupancy shall be issued after the Building Inspector   has reviewed and ascertained complete compliance with any requirements and   conditions imposed by the Planning Commission.
The owner shall place a decal on said mobile home in a conspicuous place.
Said decal will be valid for a period specified by the Planning Commission.
Prior to the issuance of occupancy permit the owner, his agent, or the resident   of the trailer shall file an affidavit with the Building Inspector affirming the   conditions approved by the Planning Commission.
A copy of this affidavit is   attached as Appendix A hereto.
c. Non-conforming mobile homes.
All mobile homes located within the City limits   of the City of Moultrie at the time of the adoption or subsequent amendment of   these regulations, but not in conformity with its provisions, are hereby declared to   be nonconforming.
The building Inspector shall within twelve (12) months of the date of the adoption   of these regulations, make a list of the non-conforming mobile homes within the   City.
The owner of non-conforming home shall be notified by the Building   Inspector of the provisions of these regulations.
Within thirty (30) days after receipt of said notice the owner shall apply for and   be issued a Certificate of Occupancy for the non-conforming use.
If the owner of   a non-conforming use fails to apply for a Certificate of Occupancy within thirty   (30) days after receipt of foregoing notice, the use ceases to be non-conforming   and is hereby declared to be in violation of this Ordinance.
The Building   Inspector and City Attorney shall take appropriate action to enjoin such violation.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   91   If a mobile home is removed from a non-conforming location, or if it is destroyed   beyond 50% of its assessed valuation, except as hereinafter provided in non-  conforming mobile home Park, it shall be replaced by another mobile home or   travel trailer.
Present mobile home parks which do not meet the requirements of this Ordinance   are non-conforming, and such parks shall be inspected by the Building Inspector   within thirty (30) days of the enactment of this Ordinance to insure that there is no   expansion of spaces in such parks or other expansion there without the entire   mobile home park being brought in to conformity with this Ordinance.
Nothing   contained herein shall prevent free use and reuse of such existing non-conforming   spaces, provided, that, if any or all of such non-conforming mobile home park is   abandoned for a period of six (6) months, the part so abandoned shall not again be   used as a part of such non-conforming mobile home park.
d. Storage of mobile homes.
All mobile homes, which are stored on a private lot,   exclusive of a sales or manufacturers lot, shall be affixed with a decal provided by   the Building Inspector.
The owner or agent of the owner of said mobile home   shall complete and file an affidavit with the Building Inspector indicating his   knowledge of the terms of this regulation and his affirmation that said mobile   home is not permanently occupied by himself, members of his family, or other   persons.
Said decal and affidavit shall expire on January 1 of each calendar year.
A new decal will be issued during the month of January for all mobile homes so   situated.
A fee of five ($5) dollars shall be required.
The required form is   attached as Appendix B hereto.
Mobile homes, other than travel trailers, shall not be stored in an R-1 District for   more than ninety (90) days.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   92   APPENDIX A                   Decal Number         Date         TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF A MOBILE HOME         Permission has been granted by  to                   Board of Adjustment          to use a mobile home as a residence    Name of Occupant or Occupants      The mobile home is a     Model        Year     Make      The mobile home will be placed on the lot in accordance with the following   requirements:         1.
2.
3.
I understand that permission for occupancy has been granted to       And that this permission expires      I will affix the decal to the front of the door of the mobile home.
Signature           Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   93   APPENDIX B                  Decal Number         Date            REQUEST FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE OF A MOBILE HOME         I request permission to store a mobile home at     Street Address or Lot No.
For a period of  weeks.
The mobile home measures       Feet by feet, will be located feet from rear      Property line, feet from nearest side lot line.
The mobile home is a     Model       Year      Make         I understand that the mobile home may not be used as a residence and that no utility   connections are allowed.
I also understand that the decal must be affixed to the front   door of the mobile home and this permit will expire December 31 of this year.
Signature                             Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   94      ARTICLE X-A      R-TH, TOWN HOUSE DISTRICT        Section 10-A.01.
TOWNHOUSE DISTRICT.
A town house development contains   elements that are characteristic of both single-family and multi-family communities.
Allowable density is comparable to that of multi-family dwellings, while the subdivision   of land permits the sale of individual structures and lots.
In permitting construction of   town houses, the City Council intends:      a.
To encourage home ownership in the City of Moultrie.
b.
To increase the variety of dwelling types that are available to the local housing   market.
c. To encourage redevelopment of small parcels of property in older areas of the   City.
Section 10-A.02.
PERMITTED USES.
a. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any permitted use.
b.
Customary home occupations.
c. Signs and outdoor advertising in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning   Ordinance.
d. Community facilities including electric transformer station, gas regulator station,   or telephone exchange, private golf courses and club houses, neighborhood   recreation centers, or swimming pools, non-commercial or lodges or public uses.
e. Town houses.
f. Private and public schools.
Section 10-A.03.
AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, & PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
a.
In accordance with the attached Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII.
b.
In addition to the requirements stated in ARTICLE XVIII, all town house   developments in the R-TH zone must comply with the following additional   standards:            Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   95   1.
A town house shall be located on a site that measures a minimum of one-half   acre in area.
2.
Each interior town house lot shall be at least 24 feet in width.
Each town   house lot located on a corner shall be at least 49 feet in width.
Each interior   ton house lot that is intended to be at the end of a row of town houses shall be   at least 34 feet wide.
3.
The set back from an interior side lot line shall be a minimum of 10 feet and   from a street lot line shall be a minimum of 25 feet for the town house which   is located at the end of a row of town houses.
4.
An accessory building may abut an accessory building located on an adjacent   lot in the Town house district.
5.
On sites that equal or exceed one (1) acre in area, a town house development   shall not exceed seven (7) dwelling units (lots) per net acre.
Net acreage   excludes land area devoted to street and alley right-of-way, and holding   ponds.
6.
No more than four (4) town houses shall be built in a row having the same   building line.
In setting forth this requirement, the City Council intends to   discourage the creation of long unbroken lines of town houses.
In a town   house complex having more than four (4) dwelling units, the required   minimum offset in the building line shall be three (3) feet.
A row or grouping   of town houses shall not exceed 250 feet in length.
7.
Every town house lot shall front on a public street.
8.
No more than one (1) single-family residence shall be located on a town house   lot.
9.
A plat showing property to be subdivided into town house lots shall be   prepared in accord with all requirements of the Subdivision Ordinance.
The   plat shall be submitted to the Moultrie/Colquitt County Planning Commission   for its review and approval.
10 a.
Two paved off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each town   house.
b.
The off-street provided for a town house may have direct access to an   alley only if the alley has a minimum pavement width of twenty (20) feet   and a minimum right-of-way width of thirty (30) feet.
When a town house   subdivision will occupy a portion of a block, the developer shall pave the   alley to whichever intersecting street is lower elevation, relative to its lots.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   96    c. Each town house lot shall have its parking spaces with direct access to a   public alley or street.
Parking spaces and driveways are permitted on the   front yard of major thoroughfares as shown on the City’s major   thoroughfare map if a setback of 50 feet is maintained and on other streets   if a setback of 35 feet is maintained and the front yard properly landscaped   as determined by the Planning Commission.
Otherwise, parking shall be   in the rear.
The minimum setback in all instances shall be 35 feet.
11.
Fire wall construction for a town house shall extend from the foundation to   and through the roof.
The wall shall be an 8-inch fire rated masonry wall.
Section 10-A.04.
PRELIMINARY REVIEW.
Preliminary review is an aid to both the   developer and the City.
Under this procedure, a developer provides the information,   which is described in Section 10-A-05, below, and the Planning Commission then acts on   the information provided.
This review is intended to then serve as a guide for the   immediate inspection of the Planning Commission, subject to a thorough study and   analysis.
Changes and additions, which may have to be made before a mutual agreement   is reached, can be made at such time without excessive engineering costs to the   developer.
Section 10-A.05.
PROCEDURE FOR PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
An application   in writing shall be submitted in triplicate to the Planning Commission by the owner or his   authorized representative for an approval of a preliminary plan of any proposed   development anticipated under the Town House District provision of this Ordinance.
Three (3) copies of the Preliminary Plan at a scale not more than one hundred (100) feet   to the inch, showing the following, shall be submitted by the applicant.
a.
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded and the name of   the present owner.
b.
Names of owners of adjacent property.
c. A topographic map showing the general location of existing property lines,   streets, alleys, buildings, easements, swamps, water courses, and other physical   site features which relate to the development.
d. The proposed methods of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drainage.
e. All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan   including landscaping.
f. The location and layout of all proposed residential units.
g. Date, North Point, and Graphic Scale.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   97   The developer shall furnish to the Planning Commission a statement indicating the   proposed use to which the development will be put, along with the description of the type   of residential building and number of units contemplated.
Upon receiving approval of the   Preliminary Plan, the developer may proceed to develop the Final Plan.
No building   permit shall be issued until approval of the Final Plan is given by the Planning   Commission.
Section 10-A.06.
PROCEDURE FOR FINAL PLAN APPROVAL.
An application in   writing shall be submitted in triplicate to the Planning Commission by the owner or his   authorized representative for approval of the Final Plan for any proposed development   anticipated under the Town House District provisions of this Ordinance.
Eight (8) copies   of the Final Plan, at a scale of not less than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, showing   the following information shall be submitted with the application:      a.
The title which the proposed development is to be recorded, the legal description   of the land to be developed, the name of the present owner, and the name and   address of the technical author of the plan.
b.
Names and owners of adjacent property and general information as to boundaries   thereof as well as the existing zoning on such tracts.
c. A topographic area map showing the location of existing property lines, the   adjoining streets, alleys, buildings, drains, easements, swamps, water courses, and   other physical site features which relate to the development.
d. The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drains, and   other engineering data required by the Planning Commission to clearly indicate   the general design of said utility services.
It shall be mandatory that the   developments use the City water and sewer services and that all streets in the   development be paved.
e. The size and capacity of existing sewer, water, storm drains, and thoroughfares in   the area.
f. The location and dimensions to the nearest foot of lots, building lines, alleys,   easement, parks, and other public properties on the property to be developed.
g. All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated in the plan   including landscaping.
h. The location and layout of all proposed residential units.
i.
Date, North Point, and Graphic Scale.
j.
Proposed development restrictions and/or protective covenants to be imposed   upon the property after development.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   98      k. Bearings and distances of all courses of the exterior boundary of the proposed   development and its area in acres to the third decimal place.
Section 10-A.07.
That the Schedule of Regulations, in ARTICLE XVIII, be amended by   inserting the information hereto attached as ―Exhibit A‖ relating to lot size setback,   building height, minimum yard setback per yard in feet, minimum floor area with   dwelling unit and parking requirements between the information contained in the table   for R-PUD and C-1 and by adding the foot notes shown on said exhibit to the bottom of   the Schedule of Regulations and after footnote q respectively.
Section 10-A.08.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby   repealed.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that should any portion of this Ordinance be declared   unconstitutional, the remaining portions thereof shall not be affected thereby and shall   remain in full force and effect.
It is the intention of the City Council and it is hereby enacted that the provisions of this   Ordinance shall become and be part of the Code of the City of Moultrie, Georgia, and   that sections of this Ordinance be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such intention.
CITY OF MOULTRIE            By     Mayor            Attest     Clerk       Read first and second times                Read third time and passes                              Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   99                      EXHIBIT A   SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS      Minimum size Lot   at Setback   Maximum Height   of Building   Minimum Yard Setback per   Yard in Ft. (unobstructed)  Minimum   Floor Area   per Dwelling   Unit   Maximum   Lot   Coverage   In Percent   Parking   Require  ments Zoning District Area   Total   Width   in Feet   In   Stories  In Feet Front   Least   One   Total   of Two  Rear   R-TH    Town House District  2,800   24, 34   or 49  3  30   30 1,000  r         r. Refer to Section 10-A-03.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   100   ARTICLE X-B      MULTIPLE USE DISTRICT     Section 10-B-01.
Multiple Use District.
A multiple use district contains elements that are   characteristic of both residential (R01A, R-1B, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-PUD) and commercial (C-2, C-3,   C-PUD) communities.
Residential units will be allowed to exist upon the same premises as an   existing commercial use so long as the primary use of the premises is for commercial business uses   and that the residential use is secondary.
In permitting construction of residential uses on   commercially zoned property, the City Council intends:      a.
To encourage the growth of family owned and operated business and the development of   commercial planned residential and commercial use of the downtown area in the City of   Moultrie.
b.
To increase the variety of businesses and dwelling types that are available to local enterprise   and housing markets.
c. To encourage redevelopment of commercial property that has become vacant and/or   deteriorating in downtown Moultrie.
Section 10-B-02.
Permitted Uses.
a. Accessory uses and structures incidental to any permitted use.
b.
Signs and outdoor advertising in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
c. Community facilities incidental to any permitted use and including private club houses,   neighborhood recreation centers, or swimming pools, non-commercial clubs or lodges and   public uses.
d. Residential housing and commercial businesses as per review and approval by the Planning   Commission.
Section 10-B-03.
Area, Height, Bulk, and Placement Requirements.
a.
Must be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission.
b.
Each residential unit shall have its own off-streets parking space with direct access to a   public alley or street.
The alley must have a minimum pavement width of twenty (20) feet   and a minimum right-of-way width of thirty (30) feet.
Public parking may be used to meet   this requirement with prior approval of the Planning Commission.
c. Firewall construction, as required by the building and fire codes shall extend from the   foundation on through the roof to a height of at least eighteen (18) inches.
The wall shall        Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   101   have at least two- (2) hour fire rating and must have the approval of the Building Official and   Fire Marshal.
Section 10-B-04.
Preliminary Review.
Preliminary review is an aid to both the developer and the   City.
This review is intended to then serve as a guide for the immediate inspection of the Planning   Commission, subject to a thorough study and analysis.
Changes and additions, which may have to   be made before a mutual agreement is reached, can be made at such time without excessive   engineering costs to the developer.
Section 10-B-05.
Procedure for Preliminary Approval.
An application in writing shall be   submitted in triplicate to the Planning Commission by the owner or his authorized representative for   approval of a preliminary plan of any proposed development anticipated under the Multiple Use   District provision of this Ordinance.
Three (3) copies of the Preliminary Plan at a scale not more   than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, showing the following, shall be submitted by the applicant.
a.
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded and the name of the   present owner.
b.
Names of owners of adjacent property.
c. A topographic map showing the general location of existing property lines, streets, alleys,   buildings, easements, and other physical site features which relate to the development.
d. The proposed methods of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drainage.
e. All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan including   landscaping.
f. The location and layout of all proposed residential units.
g. Date, North Point, and Graphic Scale.
The developer shall furnish to the Planning Commission a statement indicating the proposed use to   which the development will be put, along with a description of the type of residential building and   number of residential units and commercial uses contemplated.
Upon receiving approval of the   Preliminary Plan, the developer may proceed to develop the Final Plan.
No building permit shall be   issued until approval of the Final Plan is given by the Planning Commission.
Section 10-B-06.
Procedure for Final Plan Approval.
An application in writing shall be   submitted in triplicate to the Planning Commission by the owner or his authorized representative for   approval of the Final Plan for any proposed development anticipated under the Multiple Use District   provisions of this Ordinance.
Fifteen (15) copies of the Final Plan, at a scale of not less than one   hundred (100) feet to the inch, showing the following information shall be submitted with the   application:           Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   102   a.
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded, the legal description of   the land to be developed, the name of the present owner, and the name and address of the   technical author of the plan.
b.
Names and owners of adjacent property and general information as to boundaries thereof as   well as the existing zoning on such tracts.
c. A topographic area map showing the location of the existing property lines, the adjoining   streets, alleys, buildings, drains, easements, and other physical site features which relate to   the development.
d. The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drainage and other   engineering data required by the Planning Commission to clearly indicate the general design   of said utility services.
It shall be mandatory that the developments use the City water and   sewer services and that all streets be paved.
e. The size and capacity of existing sewer, water, storm drains, and thoroughfares in the area.
f. The location and dimensions to the nearest foot of lots, building lines, alleys, easements,   parks, and other public property to be developed.
g. All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan including   landscaping.
h. The location and layout of all proposed residential units and commercial uses.
i.
Date, North Point, and Graphic Scale.
j.
Proposed development restrictions and/or protective covenants to be imposed upon the   property after development.
k. Bearings and distances of all courses of the exterior boundary of the proposed development   and its area in acres to the third decimal place.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   103   ARTICLE XI      C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT     Section 11.01.
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
(Amended/Adopted by Council July 5, 2011—Ordinance #2011-99)      The Neighborhood Business District established in this Article is intended to permit retail business   and service uses, which are needed to serve nearby residential areas.
In order to promote such   business development in so far as possible and appropriate in each area, uses are prohibited which   would create hazards, offensive or loud noises, vibration, smoke, glare, heavy truck traffic, or late   hours of operation.
This District is also intended to encourage the concentration of local businesses   in areas and locations proposed in the Comprehensive Development Plan to the mutual advantage of   both the consumers and merchants, and thereby promote the best use of land at certain strategic   locations and avoid marginal, strip, business development along major streets.‖         Section 11.02.
PERMITTED USES.
(Amended/Adopted by Council July 5, 2011—Ordinance   #2011-99).
a.
Appliance stores, including repairing and servicing.
b.
Art and antique shops.
c. Bakeries employing not more than ten (10) persons, provided that at least seventy-five   (75) percent of all baked goods produced are sold on said premises.
d. Health clubs, spas, and other similar activities.
e. Bicycle stores.
f. Book, stationery, camera or photographic supply stores, and newsstands.
g. Churches.
h. Confectionery stores.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   104   i.
Convenient stores.
j.
Clothing, shoe, millinery, dry good and notion stores.
k. Dance studios.
l. Ice cream parlors.
m. Drugstores.
n. Furniture and home furnishings stores.
o. Florist, nursery, and gift shops.
p. Grocery, fruit, vegetable, and catering stores, and meat markets and delicatessens.
q.
Hardware and paint stores.
r. Jewelry stores.
s. Beverage stores, including sales of alcoholic beverages.
t. Barber and beauty shops.
u. Dressmaking and tailoring shops.
v. Laundry and dry cleaning pickup stations, and self-service laundries.
w. Libraries.
x. Mini warehouses/storage.
y.
Museums.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   105   z.
Public recreational facilities.
aa.
Shoe repair shops.
bb.
Schools (public or private).
cc.
Garden supply stores.
dd.
Any other retail sales or service establishment similar in character to those permitted in   Section 11.02(a) through 11.03(u); provided that such use is compatible with the   Statement of Purpose and intent of this District as stated in Section 11.01.    ee.
Professional and business offices, including banks and financial institutions.
ff.
General farming and horticulture, except the raising of livestock and poultry shall not be   permitted.
gg.
Accessory buildings and uses located either on the same lot or parcel of land as the main   structure or an adjoining lot or parcel of land under the same ownership and customarily   incidental to the permitted or conditional use, provided that the requirements of Section   4.18 are met.
hh.
Cafes, grills, lunch counters, and restaurants.
ii.
Children’s homes and orphanages, nurseries, day nurseries, nursery schools, and   childcare centers.
Section 11.03.
USES PERMITTED AFTER SPECIAL APPROVAL OF THE PLANNING   COMMISSION AND THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
(Amended/Adopted by Council   July 5, 2011—Ordinance #2011-99)      a.
Other uses similar to the above, subject to the following restrictions:   1.
All business establishments shall be retail or service establishments dealing directly   with consumers.
All goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on the   premises where produced.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   106   2.
All business, servicing, or processing except for off-street parking or loading shall   be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
b. Convalescent and nursing homes, in accordance with all applicable City, County, and   State health and fire regulations.
c. Multiple dwellings, including row or terrace dwellings, apartment houses and efficiency   units subject to all requirements for such dwelling units in the R-3 Districts.
d. Public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings, electric transformer stations,   substations, and gas regulator stations.
e. Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to the above permitted uses in   accordance with Section 4.07 subject to the following restrictions:   Garages to be used exclusively for the storage of passenger motor vehicles and/or   commercial vehicles of not less than 15,000 lbs.
Gross vehicle weight and which   are to be used in connection with a business or other use permitted and located in a   C-1 District.
f. Off-street parking and loading in accordance with the requirements of ARTICLE VI of   this Ordinance.‖   Section 11.04.
PROTECTIVE SCREENING.
Protective Screening for C-1 Districts adjacent   to or near residential districts shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in Section   4.31 of this Ordinance.  .  (Amended/Adopted by Council July 5, 2011—Ordinance #2011-99)      Section 11.05.
AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
(In accordance with the attached Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII.)
(Amended/Adopted   by Council July 5, 2011—Ordinance #2011-99)      Section 11.06.
C-1R CLASSIFICATION.
(Amended/Adopted by Council July 5, 2011—Ordinance #2011-99)      There is established a special Neighborhood Business District to be designated C-1R with permitted   uses as specified for C-1 Districts; provided, however, that the developer of land in such a District   must submit in writing an application stating the specific use for such land to, and receive the   approval of such use by, the Planning Commission before any permits therefor shall be issued.
The   Planning Commission shall review such applications with regard to the statement of purpose set   forth in Section 11.01 and the compatibility of the proposed use with the neighborhood.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   107   In addition, the developer shall furnish to the Planning Commission a plat of the proposed use with   the following information:      1.
A site plan drawn to scale;      2.
All property and/or parcel lines and dimensions; the location and dimensions of each   building and the square footage of each building or each use;      3.
The layout and location of off-street parking, total number of spaces, ingress and   egress location and dimensions, driving lanes, pedestrian ways, sidewalk, curb lines,   loading and unloading zones and screening walls, if required;      4.
Drainage patterns;      5.
Existing zoning of surrounding property;      6.
Proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drainage;      7.
All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plat; and,      8.
Typical elevations front, side, and rear of all buildings to be developed.‖         Section 11.07.
C-1T CLASSIFICATION.
(Amended/Adopted by Council July 5, 2011—Ordinance #2011-99)   There is established a Special Neighborhood Business District to be designated C-1T with permitted   uses as specified for C-1 Districts;  provided, however, retail establishments in such districts shall   operate only between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 7:00 P.M. local time.
In cases of owner occupied   single-family residences that are not non-conforming uses within this commercial zone, the 50%   damage standard for repair or replacement shall not apply so that such residences may be re-  established; provided, however, such restoration shall be commenced within one (1) year of the date   of such damage or destruction and shall be diligently carried on to completion.‖             Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   108   ARTICLE XII      C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT     Section 12.01.
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
The general Business District as established in this   ARTICLE is intended to be that permitting a wider range of business and entertainment activities   than that permitted in the Local Business District.
The permitted uses would serve not only nearby   residential areas, but also people further away for types of businesses and services usually found in   major shopping centers and central business districts at the juncture of principal streets.
These uses   would generate larger volumes of vehicular traffic; would need more off-street parking and loading,   and would require more planning to integrate such districts with adjacent residential areas.
Section 12.02.
PERMITTED USES.
a.
Any retail business or service establishment or public utility use itemized under   Section 11.01 for C-1 Districts.
b.
Automobiles, motorcycles, trailer, or boat showrooms.
c. Motor vehicle wash establishments when completely enclosed in a building, subject   to the requirements of ARTICLE VI.
d. Automobile service stations subject to regulation of Section 4.20.      e. Blueprinting.
f. Bus passenger stations.
g. Business schools, colleges, or private schools operated for profit.
h. Carpet, rug, linoleum, or other floor covering stores.
i.
Catering establishments.
j.
Commercial Planned Unit Development in accordance with the provisions of   ARTICLE XIV.
k. Clothing or costume rental establishments.
l. Department stores.
m. Eating or drinking establishments.
n. Electrical, glazing, heating, painting, paper hanging, plumbing, roofing, or ventilation   contractors’ establishments, excluding outside storage yards.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   109      o. Exterminators.
p. Furniture stores.
q.
Hotels and motels.
r. Interior decorating establishments.
s. Medical or dental laboratories for research or testing, not involving any danger of fire   or explosion, nor of offensive noise, vibration, smoke, odorous matter, heat, humidity,   glare, or other objectionable effects.
t. Monument sales establishments, with incidental processing to order, but not including   the shaping of headstones.
u. Mortuary establishments.
v. Moving or storage offices.
w. Musical instrument repair shops.
x.
Office or business machine stores, sales, or rental.
y.
Outdoor sales space for the sale of new and used automobiles, boats, or house trailers   not exceeding twenty (20) feet in length.
z.
Photographic developing or printing establishments and studios      aa.
Physical culture or health establishments, including gymnasiums, reducing salons,   masseurs, or steam baths.
bb.
Printing establishments.
cc.
Private clubs.
dd.
Public auction rooms.
ee.
Publicly owned buildings, public utility buildings, and service yards, but not   including storage yards.
ff.
Radio and television studios.
gg.
Sign painting shops.
hh.
Studios for music, dancing theatrical instruction.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   110      ii.
Taxidermist shops.
jj.
Television, radio, or household appliance repair shops.
kk.
Theatre, dance halls, assembly halls, or similar places of assembly.
ll.
Typewriter or other small business machine repair shops.
mm.
Umbrella repair shops.
nn.
Upholstering shops dealing directly with consumers.
oo.
Venetian blind, window shade, awning shops, custom shops, including repairs.
pp.
Wedding chapels or banquet halls.
qq.
Any service establishment of an office-showroom nature, or workshop in the nature   of an electrician, decorator, dressmaker, tailor, shoemaker, baker, printer, upholsterer,   or an establishment doing radio, television, or home appliance repair, photographic   reproduction, and similar establishments that require a retail adjunct and of no more   objectionable character than the aforementioned.
rr.
Other uses similar to the above and subject to the following regulations:         (1) All business establishments shall be retail or service establishments dealing   directly with consumers.
All goods provided on the premises shall be sold at   retail on the premises where sold.
(2) All business, servicing, or processing except for off-street parking, loading   and those open air uses indicated as being permissible in sub-section below,   shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
ss.
Governmental office or other governmental use; public utility offices, exchanges,   transformer stations, pump stations, and service yards, but not including outdoor   storage yards.
tt.
Open air business uses, subject to the following:      (1) The minimum area of the site shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
(2) The minimum storage frontage shall be one hundred (100) square feet.
(3) There shall be provided all around the sides of the site, except at entrances,   exits, and along the sides of premises enclosed by buildings, a fence or wall   five (5) feet in height in order to intercept windblown trash and other debris.
Where the sides abut any residentially zoned districts, the requirements for   protective screening shall be as specified in Section 4.31.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   111   (4) Lighting shall be installed in a manner which will not create a driving hazard   on abutting streets, or which will not cause direct illumination on adjacent   properties.
(5) Before approval is given for any use, a site plan shall be first submitted to the   Planning Commission for review as to suitability of location of entrances and   exits to the site, parking area, fencing, lighting, and other design features.
(6) All open-air business uses shall comply with all city and county health   regarding sanitation and general health conditions.
uu.
Bowling alley, when located at least one hundred and fifty (150) feet from any   property zoned in a residential classification.
vv.
Drive-in establishment or open front store, subject to the requirements of the City’s   Code of Ordinances, provided that the entrance or exit to or from any such use is   located at least twenty-five (25) feet from the intersection of any two (2) streets; that   all such uses shall have direct access to a major thoroughfare as defined in the City’s   Comprehensive Development Plan; that all lighting or illuminated display shall not   reflect onto any adjacent residential zone; and that consideration is given to the   proximity of existing places of congregation of children (e.g., schools) and their   relationship to traffic safety and sanitations.
ww.
Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to the above permitted uses.
Outdoor advertising signs and billboards subject to all ordinances established by the   City of Moultrie, and is regulated by Section 4.33 of this Ordinance.
xx.
Off-street parking and loading in accordance with ARTICLE VI of this Ordinance.
yy.
Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto, provided that there is   adequate access to all required off-street parking areas and that there is no parking in   the required front yard.
zz.
Existing flea markets not in enclosed buildings subject to the following:      (1) The minimum area of the site shall be twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
(2) The minimum street frontage shall be one hundred (100) square feet.
(3) There shall be provided around all sides of the display area, except at   entrances, exits, and along all sides of premises enclosed by buildings, a fence   or wall a minimum of 5 feet in height above grade screen the view of the   market from thoroughfares.
Where the side abuts any residentially zoned   districts, the requirements for protective screening shall be as specified in   Section 4.31.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   112   (4) Lighting shall be installed in a manner which will not create a driving hazard   on abutting streets, or which will not cause direct illumination on adjacent   properties.
(5) Before approval is given for any use, a site plan shall be first submitted to the   Planning Commission.
(6) All flea markets shall comply with all city and county health regulations   regarding sanitary facilities and general health conditions.
(7) Signs shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.33.
(8) Off-street parking in accordance with provisions of ARTICLE VI.
(9) Flea markets will not be permitted on streets designated as major   thoroughfares according to the City Street and Road Classification Plan.
(10) Flea markets shall not be granted special approval by the Planning   Commission in areas where their location would contribute to the depreciation   of the business district or disrupt the stability of the business district.
(11) Flea markets existing on the date of the adoption of this Ordinance shall have   6 months from said date to comply with fencing, screening, and sanitary   requirements.
All future flea markets, except for off-street parking or loading, shall be conducted in   a completely enclosed building.
Section 12.03.
PROTECTIVE SCREENING.
Protective Screening for C-2 Districts adjacent to   or near residential districts shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in Section 4.31.
Section 12.04.
AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
(In   accordance with the attached Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII of this Ordinance.)
Section 12.05.
C-2R CLASSIFICATION.
There is established a special general business district   to be designated C-2R with permitted uses as specified for C2 Districts; provided, however, the   developer of land in such a district must submit to the Planning Commission and receive its approval   of the specific use for such land and also receive the approval of the Mayor and Council of the   specific use of land before any permits therefore shall be issued.
Both the Planning Commission and   the Mayor and Council shall review such applications with regard to the statement of purpose set   forth in Section 12.01 and compatibility of the proposed use with the neighborhood.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   113   ARTICLE XIII      C-3, COMMERCIAL DISTRICT     Section 13.01.
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
The Commercial District as established in this   Article is intended to be that permitting retail as well as wholesale business activities, including   certain small fabricating and manufacturing operations which require a central location and which   can be serviced from major thoroughfares, The intent of this District is to permit those uses in areas   designated on the Comprehensive Development Plan, which can be integrated with nearby   residential areas without adverse effects, and which will benefit by being near a labor supply and   related retail activities.
The permitted uses in this district are principally orientated to those having   infrequent vehicular access and are not like those retail business activities in the Local Business or   General Business District which generate considerable pedestrian traffic, As such, they are   appropriately located along major thoroughfares.
Section 13.02.
PERMITTED USES.
a.
All permitted uses in a C-2 District, subject to regulations set forth in Schedule of   Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII.
b.
Commercial Planned Unit Developments in accordance with the provisions of   ARTICLE XIV.
c. Wholesale stores, storage buildings, warehouses, distributing plants, freezers and   lockers.
d. Small fabrication and manufacturing shops, when employing not more than ten (10)   employees in an office and manufacturing operations, such as small tool and dye   shops, dental, surgical, and optical goods manufacturing; provided that there shall no   pressing or stamping operations, and that all operations shall meet the minimum   performance standards where applicable as set forth under Section 13.03.      e. Truck Sales.
f. Machine Sales.
g. Mobile home sales.
h. Boat sales.
i.
Moving, transfer, and storage operations.
j.
Lumber building material, and hardware stores.
k. Off-street parking and loading in accordance with ARTICLE VI.
Zoning Ordinance reprinted and distributed September 1, 2011   114   l. Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto, provided that there is   adequate access to all required off-street parking areas and that there is no parking in   the required front yard.
Section 13.02-A.
USES PERMITTED AFTER SPECIAL APPROVAL OF THE PLANNING   COMMISSION.
Game rooms are permitted after special approval of the Planning Commission   subject to the following regulations:      1.
The minimum distance from a residential area shall be five hundred (500) feet as   measured from the nearest property lines and one thousand three hundred twenty   (1,320) linear feet as measured along the lines of public access to the property from   the nearest property lines.
2.
A detailed site plan showing the building location on the lot, setbacks, landscaping,   lighting, and distance to the nearest residential area shall be submitted for Planning   Commission review.
3.
Applicants for special use permits for game rooms shall demonstrate compliance with   all provisions of Chapter 10, Article IV of the Code of Ordinances, City of Moultrie,   at the time of application.
Section 13.03.
PROTECTIVE SCREENING.
Protective Screening for C-3 Districts adjacent to   or near residential districts shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in Section 4.31.
Section 13.04.
AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
(In   Accordance with the attached Schedule of Regulations, ARTICLE XVIII.)
Section 13.05.
C-3R CLASSIFICATION.