BORDER OR > INSIDE CONTRASTING COLOR AREA.   COMPUTE SUM OF AREAS OF INDIVIDUAL ELEMENTS ON WALL OR STRUCTURE. A Arrowhead      IN COMPUTING AREA FOR UPPER- AND LOWER-CASE LETTERING, INCLUDE ASCENDERS OR DESCENDERS, BUT NOT BOTH. CALCULATE SUPER ASCENDERS SEPARATELY AS INDICATED. Notes: Sum of shaded areas only represents sign area for code compliance purposes. Examples of signs consisting of individual letters, elements or logos placed on building walls or structures. FIGURE 1003.1(4) SIGN AREA—COMPUTATION METHODOLOGY 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” 35  SIGN REGULATIONS 1004.7 Maintenance, repair and removal. Every sign per- mitted by this ordinance shall be kept in good condition and repair. When any sign becomes insecure, in danger of falling or is otherwise deemed unsafe by the code official, or if any sign shall be unlawfully installed, erected or maintained in violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance, the owner thereof or the person or firm using same shall, upon written notice by the code official forthwith in the case of immediate danger, and in any case within not more than 10 days, make such sign conform to the provisions of this ordinance, or shall remove it. If within 10 days the order is not complied with, the code official shall be permitted to remove or cause such sign to be removed at the expense of the owner and/or the user of the sign. 1004.8 Obsolete sign copy. Any sign copy that no longer advertises or identifies a use conducted on the property on which said sign is erected must have the sign copy covered or removed within 30 days after written notification from the code official; and upon failure to comply with such notice, the code official is hereby authorized to cause removal of such sign copy, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of the building, structure or ground on which the sign is located. 1004.9 Nonconforming signs. Any sign legally existing at the time of the passage of this ordinance that does not con- form in use, location, height or size with the regulations of the zone in which such sign is located, shall be considered a legal nonconforming use or structure and shall be permitted to continue in such status until such time as it is either aban- doned or removed by its owner, subject to the following limi- tations: 1. Structural alterations, enlargement or re-erection are permissible only where such alterations will not increase the degree of nonconformity of the signs. 2. Any legal nonconforming sign shall be removed or rebuilt without increasing the existing height or area if it is damaged, or removed if allowed to deteriorate to the extent that the cost of repair or restoration exceeds 50 percent of the replacement cost of the sign as deter- mined by the code official. 3. Signs that comply with either Item 1 or 2 above need not be permitted. SECTION 1005 EXEMPT SIGNS 1005.1 Exempt signs. The following signs shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. No sign shall be exempt from Section 1004.4. 1. Official notices authorized by a court, public body or public safety official. 2. Directional, warning or information signs authorized by federal, state or municipal governments. 36 3. Memorial plaques, building identification signs and building cornerstones when cut or carved into a masonry surface or when made of noncombustible material and made an integral part of the building or structure. 4. The flag of a government or noncommercial institution, such as a school. 5. Religious symbols and seasonal decorations within the appropriate public holiday season. 6. Works of fine art displayed in conjunction with a com- mercial enterprise where the enterprise does not receive direct commercial gain. 7. Street address signs and combination nameplate and street address signs that contain no advertising copy and which do not exceed 6 square feet (0.56 m’) in area. SECTION 1006 PROHIBITED SIGNS 1006.1 Prohibited signs. The following devices and loca- tions shall be specifically prohibited: 1. Signs located in such a manner as to obstruct or other- wise interfere with an official traffic sign, signal or device, or obstruct or interfere with a driver’s view of approaching, merging or intersecting traffic. 2. Except as provided for elsewhere in this code, signs encroaching upon or overhanging public right-of-way. No sign shall be attached to any utility pole, light stan- dard, street tree or any other public facility located within the public right-of-way. 3. Signs which blink, flash or are animated by lighting in any fashion that would cause such signs to have the appearance of traffic safety signs and lights, or munici- pal vehicle warnings from a distance. 4. Portable signs except as allowed for temporary signs. 5. Any sign attached to, or placed on, a vehicle or trailer parked on public or private property, except for signs meeting the following conditions: 5.1. The primary purpose of such a vehicle or trailer is not the display of signs. 5.2. The signs are magnetic, decals or painted upon an integral part of the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the manufacturer, and do not break the silhouette of the vehicle. 5.3. The vehicle or trailer is in operating condition, currently registered and licensed to operate on public streets when applicable, and actively used or available for use in the daily function of the business to which such signs relate. 6. Vehicles and trailers are not used primarily as static displays, advertising a product or service, nor utilized as storage, shelter or distribution points for commercial products or services for the general public. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  7. Balloons, streamers or pinwheels except those tempo- rarily displayed as part of a special sale, promotion or community event. For the purposes of this subsection, “temporarily” means no more than 20 days in any cal- endar year. SECTION 1007 PERMITS 1007.1 Permits required. Unless specifically exempted, a permit must be obtained from the code official for the erec- tion and maintenance of all signs erected or maintained within this jurisdiction and in accordance with other ordi- nances of this jurisdiction. Exemptions from the necessity of securing a permit, however, shall not be construed to relieve the owner of the sign involved from responsibility for its erection and maintenance in a safe manner and in a manner in accordance with all the other provisions of this ordinance. 1007.2 Construction documents. Before any permit is granted for the erection of a sign or sign structure requiring such permit, construction documents shall be filed with the code official showing the dimensions, materials and required details of construction, including loads, stresses, anchorage and any other pertinent data. The permit application shall be accompanied by the written consent of the owner or lessee of the premises upon which the sign is to be erected and by engi- neering calculations signed and sealed by a registered design professional where required by the Jnternational Building Code. 1007.3 Changes to signs. No sign shall be structurally altered, enlarged or relocated except in conformity to the pro- visions herein, nor until a proper permit, if required, has been secured. The changing or maintenance of movable parts or components of an approved sign that is designed for such changes, or the changing of copy, business names, lettering, sign faces, colors, display and/or graphic matter, or the con- tent of any sign shall not be deemed a structural alteration. 1007.4 Permit fees. Permit fees to erect, alter or relocate a sign shall be in accordance with the fee schedule adopted within this jurisdiction. SECTION 1008 SPECIFIC SIGN REQUIREMENTS 1008.1 Identification signs. Identification signs shall be in accordance with Sections 1008.1.1 through 1008.1.3. 1008.1.1 Wall signs. Every single-family residence, mul- tiple-family residential complex, commercial or industrial building, and every separate nonresidential building in a residential zone may display wall signs per street frontage subject to the limiting standards set forth in Table 1008.1.1(1). For shopping centers, planned industrial parks or other multiple occupancy nonresidential build- ings, the building face or wall shall be calculated sepa- rately for each separate occupancy, but in no event will the allowed area for any separate occupancy be less than |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” SIGN REGULATIONS TABLE 1008.1.1(1) IDENTIFICATION SIGN STANDARDS—WALL SIGNS   AGGREGATE AREA LAND USE (square feet)   JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| Single-family residential   Muttiple-family residential | |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]   Nonresidentlal in a JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBERI residential zone   Commercial and industrial See Table1008.1.1(2)       For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929 m’. TABLE 1008.1.1(2)   SIGN AREA DISTANCE OF SIGN FROM ROAD OR ADJACENT COMMERCIAL OR PERCENTAGE OF BUILDING ELEVATION INDUSTRIAL ZONE PERMITTED FOR SIGN AREA   Oto 100 feet |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|   101 to 300 feet |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|   Over 301 feet |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|