COMMERCIAL, HEAVY. An establishment or business that generally uses open sales yards, outside equipment stor- age or outside activities that generate noise or other impacts considered incompatible with less-intense uses. Typical busi- nesses in this definition are lumber yards, construction spe- cialty services, heavy equipment suppliers or building contractors. COMMERCIAL, LIGHT. An establishment or business that generally has retail or wholesale sales, office uses, or ser- vices, which do not generate noise or other impacts consid- ered incompatible with less-intense uses. Typical businesses in this definition are retail stores, offices, catering services or restaurants. COMMERCIAL CENTER, COMMUNITY. A _ com- pletely planned and designed commercial development pro- viding for the sale of general merchandise and/or convenience goods and services. A conununity commercial center shall provide for the sale of general merchandise, and may include a variety store, discount store or supermarket. COMMERCIAL CENTER, CONVENIENCE. A com- pletely planned and designed commercial development pro- viding for the sale of general merchandise and/or convenience goods and services. A convenience commercial center shall provide a small cluster of convenience shops or services. COMMERCIAL CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD. A com- pletely planned and designed commercial development pro- viding for the sale of general merchandise and/or convenience goods and services. A neighborhood commer- cial center shall provide for the sales of convenience goods and services, with a supermarket as the principal tenant. COMMERCIAL CENTER, REGIONAL. A completely planned and designed commercial development providing for the sale of general merchandise and/or convenience goods and services. A regional center shall provide for the sale of general merchandise, apparel, furniture, home furnishings, and other retail sales and services, in full depth and variety. COMMERCIAL RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES. Establishments that engage in the sale of general retail goods and accessory services. Businesses within this definition include those that conduct sales and storage entirely within an enclosed structure (with the exception of occasional outdoor “sidewalk” promotions) ; businesses specializing in the sale of either general merchandise or convenience goods. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The declaration of purposes, policies and programs for the development of the jurisdiction. CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would become harmoni- ous or compatible with neighboring uses through the applica- tion and maintenance of qualifying conditions. CONDOMINIUM. A single-dwelling unit in a multiunit dwelling or structure, that is separately owned and may be combined with an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities of the property. CONGREGATE RESIDENCE. Any building or portion thereof that contains facilities for living, sleeping and sanita- tion as required by this code, and may include facilities for eating and cooking for occupancy by other than a family. A congregate residence shall be permitted to be a shelter, con- vent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, but does not include jails, hospitals, nursing homes, hotels or lodging houses. COPY. See Section 1002.1. COURT. A space, open and unobstructed to the sky, located at or above grade level on a lot and bounded on three or more sides by walls of a building. DAY CARE, FAMILY. The keeping for part-time care and/ or instruction, whether or not for compensation, of six or less 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”  children at any one time within a dwelling, not including members of the family residing on the premises. DAY CARE, GROUP. An establishment for the care and/or instruction, whether or not for compensation, of seven or more persons at any one time. Child nurseries, preschools and adult care facilities are included in this definition. DENSITY. The number of dwelling units that are allowed on an area of land, which area of land shall be permitted to include dedicated streets contained within the development. DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX SIGN. See Section 1002.1. DIRECTIONAL SIGN. See Section 1002.1. DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. See Section 1002.1. DRIVEWAY. A private access road, the use of that is lim- ited to persons residing, employed, or otherwise using or vis- iting the parcel in which it is located. DWELLING, MULTIPLE UNIT. A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by three or more families liv- ing independently in which they may or may not share com- mon entrances and/or other spaces. Individual dwelling units may be owned as condominiums, or offered for rent. DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit with kitchen and sleeping facilities, designed for occupancy by one family. DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A building designed or arranged to be occupied by two families living independently, with the structure having only two dwelling units. [B] DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons, includ- ing permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation. EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for present or future use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property. The easement shall be per- mitted to be for use under, on or above said lot or lots. ELECTRIC SIGN. See Section 1002.1. ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER. See Sec- tion 1002.1. EXTERIOR SIGN. See Section 1002.1. FACE OF BUILDING, PRIMARY. The wall of a building fronting on a street or right-of-way, excluding any appurte- nances such as projecting fins, columns, pilasters, canopies, marquees, showcases or decorations. FARM ANIMALS. Animals other than household pets that shall be permitted to, where permitted, be kept and main- tained for commercial production and sale and/or family food production, education or recreation. Farm animals are identi- fied by these categories: large animals, e.g., horses and cattle; medium animals, e.g., sheep and goats; or small animals, e.g., rabbits, chinchillas, chickens, turkeys, pheasants, geese, ducks and pigeons. FASCIA SIGN. See “Wall or fascia sign,” Section 1002.1. FLASHING SIGN. See “Animated sign, electrically acti- vated,” Section 1002.1. 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” DEFINITIONS FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the horizontal areas of floors of a building measured from the exterior face of exte- rior walls or, if appropriate, from the center line of dividing walls; this includes courts and decks or porches when cov- ered by a roof. FLOOR AREA, NET. The gross floor area exclusive of vents, shafts, courts, elevators, stairways, exterior walls and similar facilities. FREE-STANDING SIGN. See Section 1002.1. FRONTAGE. The width of a lot or parcel abutting a public right-of-way measured at the front property line. FRONTAGE (Building). See Section 1002.1. FRONTAGE (Property). See Section 1002.1. GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building or a portion of a building not more than 1,000 square feet (92.9 m’) in area, in which only private or pleasure-type motor vehicles used by the ten- ants of the building or buildings on the premises are stored or kept. GRADE (Adjacent Ground Elevation). The lowest point of elevation of the existing surface of the ground, within the area between the building and a line 5 feet (1524 mm) from the building. GROUND SIGN. See “Free-standing sign,” Section 1002.1. GROUP CARE FACILITY. A facility, required to be licensed by the state, which provides training, care, supervi- sion, treatment and/or rehabilitation to the aged, disabled, those convicted of crimes, or those suffering the effects of drugs or alcohol; this does not include day care centers, fan- ily day care homes, foster homes, schools, hospitals, jails or prisons. [B] HABITABLE SPACE (Room). Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet com- partments, closets, halls, storage or utility space, and similar areas are not considered habitable space. HOME OCCUPATION. The partial use of a home for com- mercial or nonresidential uses by a resident thereof, which is subordinate and incidental to the use of the dwelling for resi- dential purposes. HOSPITAL. An institution designed for the diagnosis, treat- ment and care of human illness or infirmity and providing health services, primarily for inpatients, and including as related facilities, laboratories, outpatient departments, train- ing facilities and staff offices. HOUSEHOLD PETS. Dogs, cats, rabbits, birds, etc., for family use only (noncommercial) with cages, pens, etc. ILLUMINATED SIGN. See Section 1002.1. INDUSTRIAL OR RESEARCH PARK. A tract of land developed according to a master site plan for the use of a family of industries and their related commercial uses, and that is of sufficient size and physical improvement to protect surrounding areas and the general community and to ensure a harmonious integration into the neighborhood. INTERIOR SIGN. See Section 1002.1.  DEFINITIONS [A] JURISDICTION. As used in this code, jurisdiction is any political subdivision that adopts this code for administra- tive regulations within its sphere of authority. KITCHEN. Any room or portion of a room within a building designed and intended to be used for the cooking or prepara- tion of food. LANDSCAPING. The finishing and adornment of unpaved yard areas. Materials and treatment generally include natu- rally growing elements such as grass, trees, shrubs and flow- ers. This treatment shall be permitted also to include the use of logs, rocks, fountains, water features and contouring of the earth. LEGISLATIVE BODY. The political entity of the adopting jurisdiction. LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to, horses, bovine animals, sheep, goats, swine, reindeer, donkeys, mules and any other hoofed animals. [A] LOT. A single parcel of land. MANSARD. See Section 1002.1. MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. All other types of manu- facturing not included in the definitions of light manufactur- ing and medium manufacturing. MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The manufacturing, com- pounding, processing, assembling, packaging or testing of goods or equipment, including research activities, conducted entirely within an enclosed structure, with no outside storage, serviced by a modest volume of trucks or vans and imposing a negligible impact on the surrounding environment by noise, vibration, smoke, dust or pollutants. MANUFACTURING, MEDIUM. The manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling, packaging or testing of goods or equipment within an enclosed structure or an open yard that is capable of being screened from neighboring properties, serviced by a modest volume of trucks or other vehicles. MARQUEE. See “ Canopy (Attached),” Section 1002.1. MARQUEE SIGN. See “Canopy sign,” Section 1002.1. MENU BOARD. See Section 1002.1. MORTUARY, FUNERAL HOME. An establishment in which the dead are prepared for burial or cremation. The facility shall be permitted to include a chapel for the conduct of funeral services and spaces for funeral services and infor- mal gatherings, and/or display of funeral equipment. MOTEL, HOTEL. Any building containing six or more sleeping units intended or designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or which are occu- pied for sleeping purposes by guests. MULTIPLE-FACED SIGN. See Section 1002.1. NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot whose width, area or other dimension did not conform to the regulations when this code became effective. NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign or sign structure or portion thereof lawfully existing at the time this code became effective, which does not now conform.