One set of reproducible plans and five (5) copies of each set shall be submitted for approval. 2.2.3. Approval of Building Permit Application. If, after review, it is found that the proposed construction, excavation, moving or other alteration (as set forth in the application) is in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, the Building Inspector shall issue a Building Permit accordingly. 2.2.4. Denial of Building Permit Application. The applicant, upon notification in writing by the Building Inspector of a Building Permit denial, may make application with the Chairman of the Zoning Board of Adjustment, hereinafter referred to as the “ZBA”, and request a hearing before that body. 2.2.5. Certificate of Occupancy. No land or building or other structure or part thereof erected, moved or altered in its use shall be used or occupied until the Building Inspector has issued a Certificate of Occupancy. Within three (3) days after the owner or his or her agent has notified the Building Inspector that a building or premises thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to make a final inspection thereof and issue a Certificate of Occupancy, if the building or premises or part thereof is found to conform with the provisions of this Ordinance; or if such certificate is refused, to state the refusal in writing with the cause. One (1) copy of the signed statement by the owner or his or her agent regarding the intended use of the premises and a signed refusal (if any) shall be kept on file with the records of the Building Inspector. Appeals from the decision of the Zoning Administrator and Building Inspector shall be heard by the ZBA. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 10   2.2.6. Expiration of Building Permit. Any permit under which no construction work has been done above the foundation wall or other foundation support within six (6) months from the date of issuance shall expire by limitation but shall upon reapplication, be renewable, subject, however, to the provisions of all Ordinances in force at the time of said application for renewal. In no event shall any permit be renewed more than one time. §2.3. Unlawful Structures Any uses of land or dwellings or construction or alteration of buildings or structures erected, altered, razed or converted in violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be a nuisance per se. The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to apply to a court of equity to abate the nuisance created by such unlawful use of a structure, land or building. Whenever the Zoning Administrator has declared a structure to be in violation of any applicable provisions of this Ordinance, the owner or occupant shall, within seventy-two (72) hours from receipt of notification from said official to vacate such premises, accomplish such vacation of said structure or premises which shall not again be used or occupied until such structure or premises has been adapted to conform to the provisions of this Ordinance. Service of notification shall be as follows: 2.3.1. By delivery to the owner personally or by leaving the notice at the usual place of abode of the owner with a person of suitable age and discretion 2.3.2. By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed to the owner at his or her last known address with postage prepaid thereon 2.3.3. By posting and keeping posted twenty-four (24) hours, a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the premises to be repaired  §2.4. Penalties and Remedies 2.4.1. Penalties. Any person, firm, corporation, or other organization which violates any provisions of this Ordinance shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than one dollar($1.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and court costs for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. The conviction of a violation and imposition of any fine shall not constitute an exemption from compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance. 2.4.2. Remedies. In case any building or other structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, maintained; or, any building, structure or land is used in violation of this Ordinance, the Zoning Administrator or any other appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner within 500 ft who would be damaged or caused hardship by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may: 1. Institute an injunction. 2. Institute a Mandamus. 3. Take other appropriate action or proceedings to stay or prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land. §2.5. Interpretation of District Boundaries The Zoning Board of Adjustment (ZBA) shall make an interpretation of the Zoning Map of Calera, Alabama upon request of any person. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any district shown on said maps, the following rules shall apply: 2.5.1. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following street and alley lines or land lot lines, such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries. 2.5.2. In un-subdivided property or tracts where a district boundary divides a lot, the location of such boundaries, unless same are indicated by dimensions, shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on such maps. 2.5.3. Where boundaries are approximately parallel to public right-of-way lines, such boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto. §2.6. Interpretation of Uses This ordinance recognizes the limitations of the district use listings given the infinite variations of essentially similar uses. Therefore, the Zoning Administrator is empowered to make interpretations so as to classify any questioned use within a listed use of most similar impact and characteristics. However, in no case shall the Zoning Administrator interpret a use as falling in  Article 2 ADMINISTRATIVE AND REVIEW PROCEDURES 11   one listed use when the use in question is more similar in impact and characteristics to another listed use. Any appeals related to the Zoning Administrator's use interpretation may be filed with the ZBA. §2.7. Unclassified Uses In the event the Zoning Administrator finds a new or unusual use that cannot appropriately fit a listed use in any district, the following procedures shall be followed: 2.7.1. If compatible with the existing zoning district intent, the unclassified use shall be permitted by Special Exception upon approval and subject to the conditions set by the ZBA. 2.7.2. If the unclassified use would not be compatible with the intent of the existing zoning district, the Zoning Administrator shall determine the most appropriate zoning district classification and require the property in question to be rezoned. In addition, the unclassified use shall be permitted in the new district by special exception if granted approval by the ZBA. 2.7.3. Following final action on the unclassified use, as (1) and (2) above may require, the Planning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Commission, may initiate an amendment to this Ordinance to list the newly permitted use in the most appropriate district(s). §2.8. Zoning Board of Adjustment 2.8.1. Appointment. A Zoning Board of Adjustment (ZBA) is hereby established. Such board shall be appointed as provided by the Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11-52-80 or as such, may be amended; and, it shall have all powers granted therein. 2.8.2. Procedure. The ZBA, shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs, and in keeping with the provisions of this Ordinance. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairman or in his or her absence, the acting Chairman. He or she may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public. The ZBA shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be a public record and be immediately filed in the office of the ZBA. 2.8.3. Powers and Duties. The ZBA shall have the following powers and duties as granted in §2.8.2 above and as herein specified. 1. Administrative Review. The ZBA shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that an error exists in any order, requirements, decision or determination made by the administrative official in the enforcement of this Ordinance. a. Action on Appeals. In exercising the above mentioned powers, the ZBA may, so long as such action is in conformity with the terms of this Ordinance, reverse, or affirm (wholly or partly) or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as to what should be made; and, to that end, shall have powers of the administrative official from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the ZBA shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of said official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this Ordinance or to affect any variation in the application of this Ordinance. [Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11 -52-80] b. Appeals - How Taken (1) Appeals to the ZBA may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the City affected by any decision of the administrative official. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) days or such lesser period as may be provided by the rules of the ZBA, by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the ZBA a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The administrative official shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting which the action appealed from was taken. (2) The ZBA shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in interest and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. (3) Stay of Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed, unless the administrative official certifies to the ZBA (after the notice of appeal is filed by him or her) that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the ZBA or by a court of record on application, on notice to the administrative official from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 12   c. Appeals from the Action of the ZBA. Any party aggrieved by any final judgment of the ZBA, may appeal therefrom to the Circuit Court or court of like jurisdiction as provided by Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11-52-81 or as the same may be amended within 15 days from the date of the board hearing. 2. Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship. a. Justification. Variances to the terms of this Chapter may be granted individual cases upon a finding by the ZBA that the variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship. Another essential factor is that the spirit of the Ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done. More specifically, the ZBA shall determine all of the following criteria have been satisfied. (1) The Board should make proper adjustment to prevent unnecessary hardship, even to the extent of authorizing nonconforming uses. Where the Board authorizes a nonconforming use in a district to prevent unnecessary hardship, all relevant factors, when taken together, must indicate that the plight of the premises in question is unique in that they cannot be put reasonably to a conforming use because of the limitations imposed upon them by reason of their classification in a specific zone. (2) Variances should be permitted only under peculiar and exceptional circumstances. (3) Hardship alone is NOT sufficient. Alabama statutes require unnecessary hardship. [Not self-created and involving the design or other limitations of the land itself] (4) Mere financial loss of a kind, which might be common to all of the property owners in a district, is not an unnecessary hardship. (5) When a hardship is self-inflicted or self-created, there is no basis for claim that a variance should be granted. Variances should be granted sparingly and the spirit of this Ordinance, in harmony with the spirit of State Law, should be carefully preserved to the end, that the structure of this Section would not disintegrate and fall apart by constant erosion at the hands of the ZBA. b. Application for a Variance. An application for a variance shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator at least twenty- one (21) days ahead of the scheduled hearing date before the ZBA. The application shall be filed by the property owner or the authorized agent of the owner on a form made available from the Zoning Administrator and shall include the materials listed in Appendix A. c. Public Notice Required. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled ZBA hearing, the Chairman of the ZBA shall give written notice of the variance request to all adjacent property owners. Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States Mail - first class, postage prepaid, addressed to such property owners at the addresses as submitted with the variance application. Any error in the address of such notices shall not invalidate the giving of notice, provided that no more than five (5) percent of the total number of notices given contain any such error. Such notice shall state the following: (1) The name of the applicant (2) The location of the property (3) The nature of the variance and applicable zoning provisions (4) The time, date and location of the ZBA hearing at which said application is to be considered 3. Special Exception Uses. In certain cases, certain land uses are identified for special zoning treatment. The nature of these uses is such that, when properly regulated, they are appropriate in several districts. In order to bring about the proper integration of uses into the City's land use pattern, a special set of criteria or standards may be provided for each use listed in the Special Exception Use category. Review of these standards will tend to maintain compatibility with adjoining land uses and it is intended that the ZBA will review all such proposals for these types of uses for compliance with the appropriate provisions before approval is granted and appropriate permits are issued. a. Special Exception Procedures. All uses listed as permitted by special exception shall require the submission of an application to the ZBA. An application for a special exception use shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator at least twenty-one (21) days ahead of the scheduled hearing date before the ZBA. An application shall be filed by the property owner or authorized agent on a form made available by the Zoning Administrator. Such form shall be completed by the applicant or agent and include the materials listed in Appendix A. Article 2 ADMINISTRATIVE AND REVIEW PROCEDURES 13   b. Public Notice. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled ZBA public hearing, the Chairman shall give written notice of the proposal to all adjacent property owners. Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States Mail first class, prepaid, addressed to those property owners at their addresses as submitted by the applicant at the time application was made. Any error in the addresses of such notices shall not invalidate the giving of notice provided not more than five (5) percent of the total number of notices contain any such error. Such notice shall contain the following: (1) The name of the applicant (2) The location of the property (3) The proposed use by Special Exception (4) The time, date and location of the ZBA Public Hearing  §2.9. Conditional Uses 2.9.1. Application. All requests for Conditional Uses shall be submitted on applications made available by the City Clerk. Applications shall be submitted at least twenty (20) working days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission and accompanied by maps, drawings, statements and/or other documentation as necessary to determine compliance with the criteria of this §2.9. 2.9.2. Public Hearing. Upon acceptance of an application, the Commission shall consider the application during a public hearing. The Commission shall have thirty (30) days, after the public hearing, in which to approve or disapprove the request. Failure of the Commission to make such decision within the prescribed time shall constitute approval. An applicant may request reconsideration by the Council upon denial by the Commission or if the applicant feels conditions imposed by the Commission are excessive or arbitrary. Such request shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator within fifteen (15) days of the decision of the Commission. 2.9.3. Determination. Approval shall not be made unless evidence presented is such to establish: 1. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of the surrounding area and that the proposed use is necessary or desirable and provides a service or facility that contributes to the general well-being of the surrounding area. 2. That such development will comply with all applicable regulations and conditions specified within this Ordinance. 3. The Commission shall describe and have recorded and filed in writing, the conditions imposed on the development. 2.9.4. Expiration and Revocation. Approval of a Conditional Use shall be considered exercised when the use has been established or when the Building Permit has been issued and substantial construction accomplished. When such use is abandoned or discontinued for a period of one (1) year, it shall not be reestablished, unless authorized by the Commission. Conditional Use approval shall be revoked when the applicant fails to comply with the conditions imposed by the Commission. 2.9.5. Review Criteria. Conditional Uses shall only be approved upon a finding that all of the following criteria are satisfied: 1. The request is consistent with all applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan. 2. The request shall not adversely affect adjacent properties. 3. The request is compatible with the existing or allowable uses of adjacent properties. 4. The request can demonstrate that adequate public facilities, including roads, drainage, potable water, sanitary sewer, and police and fire protection exist or will exist to serve the requested use at the time such facilities are needed. 5. The request can demonstrate adequate provision for maintenance of the use and associated structures. 6. The request has minimized, to the degree possible, adverse effects on the natural environment. 7. The request will not create undue traffic congestion. 8. The request will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare. 9. The request conforms to all applicable requirements of this Ordinance. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 14   §2.10. Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance or the Zoning Map The regulations and the number, area and boundaries of districts established by this Ordinance may be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed by the Council; but, no amendment shall be considered, unless it is first submitted to the Commission for its review and recommendation. This body may, on its own initiative, propose changes, hold public hearings (public notice of which shall be given), for the consideration of any proposed amendment to the provisions of this Ordinance or to the official Zoning Map of Calera, Alabama. 2.10.1. Authority to Amend. Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning :practices warrants such action, the Council, by favorable vote of a majority of the members, may amend the regulations or zoning district boundaries herein established, in accordance with the Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11-52-78 or as same may be amended. 2.10.2. Authorized Petitioners. A petition for amendment of this Ordinance or the zoning district boundaries may be initiated by the Council, the Commission or by the owner or agent of such property owner. 2.10.3. Petition for Amendment 1. A petition for amendment; when initiated by the property owner or by authorized agent of such owner, shall meet the application requirements of this Section. 2. The application for rezoning shall be made on a form available from the Zoning Administrator and shall be filed with said official at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the Commission hearing. The applicant shall provide the information and materials described in Appendix A. Note: When a petition for a zoning change is initiated by the City, rather than by property owner or his or her authorized agent, no Administrative Fee shall be required. 2.10.4. City Council Action on Amendments 1. Notification and Adoption Requirement a. Prior to adoption, a proposed amending ordinance shall be published in full for one insertion and an additional insertion of a synopsis of the proposed ordinance, one week after the first insertion, which synopsis shall refer to the date and name of the newspaper in which the proposed ordinance was first published; both such insertions shall be at least fifteen (15) days in advance of its passage and in a newspaper of general circulation published within the City, or, if there is no such newspaper, then by posting the proposed ordinance in four (4) conspicuous places within the City, together with a notice stating the time and place that the ordinance is to be considered by the Council and stating further that at such time and place all persons who desire shall have an opportunity of being heard in opposition to or in favor of such ordinance. b. After such public hearing, the Council may adopt the proposed amending ordinance as recommended by the Commission or in such amended form as it deems best. However, if the Council makes substantial or material changes from the proposed amending ordinance as first advertised, the Council shall hold another public hearing on the proposed amending ordinance as changed, after giving notice as provided in Item a above. 2.10.5. Limitations on Rezoning Requests. Should the Council reject a rezoning amendment proposal by a property owner, the same kind of rezoning of the same tract of land will not be considered by the Commission until a period of six (6) months has elapsed from the date of such action by the Council. Further, a withdrawal of the application for rezoning, after the hearing held by the Commission but prior to the hearing held by the Council, shall also require a six (6) month time period before another application may be submitted. However, the Commission may adjust this time period if in the opinion of a majority of the Commission, an unusual situation or circumstance exists which would warrant another hearing. Each time the zoning amendment application is made, the required filing fee must be paid. Under no condition shall the fee be refunded for failure of such proposed amendment to be enacted into law. Article 3 DEFINITIONS 15   Article 3 DEFINITIONS  §3.1. Purpose of Definition For the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance, certain terms used in this Ordinance shall have the meanings defined by this Article. In the event a term is not listed in this Article or is not defined elsewhere in this Ordinance, the conventional meaning of the term shall apply. §3.2. Interpretation The Zoning Administrator is authorized to make a final determination of the meaning of any term used in this Ordinance. §3.3. Word Usage 3.3.1. In the interpretation of this Zoning Ordinance, the provisions and rules of this Section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly requires otherwise. 1. Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include the other tenses and derivative forms. 2. Words in the singular number shall include the plural number and words in the plural number shall include the singular number. 3. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the feminine gender shall include the masculine. 4. The world shall is mandatory and the word may is permissive. 5. The word person includes an individual, firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation. §3.4. Words and Phrases Defined The following general terms, when referred to in this Ordinance, shall have the meanings defined by this Section. 1. ABUT, ADJACENT, ADJOIN OR CONTIGUOUS To physically touch or border upon or to share a common border with or be separated from the common border by an easement. 2. ACCESS A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a property. 3. ACCESSORY STRUCTURE A structure detached from a principal building on the same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building or use. 4. ACCESSORY USE A use of land or of a building or portion thereof commonly associated with and integrally related to the principal use of the land or building on the same lot. 5. ACRE A measure of land containing 43,560 sf of area. 6. ADDITION A structure added to the original structure at some time after completion of or after a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued for the original structure. 7. ALLEY A service way providing a means of access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation. 8. ALTERATION Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior partitions, as well as any change in doors or windows or any enlargement to a building or structure whether horizontally or vertically or the moving of a building or structure from one location to another. 9. APPLICABLE DISTRICT That zoning district in which a building, structure, property, or subdivision, for which a zoning application is submitted or permit is sought, is located. 10. APPLICANT A person submitting an application for development, a variance, a special exception use or rezoning. 11. BASEMENT A portion of a building having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height above the average grade of the adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling height of not less than six and one-half (6.5) ft. 12. BEDROOM A private room planned and intended for sleeping, separated from other rooms by a door, and accessible to a bathroom without crossing another bedroom. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 16   13. BERM A grass covered or landscaped mound of earth with a slope of 1/3 or greater on both sides of the mound, used to screen activities or uses. 14. BLOCK A tract or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets other than alleys or a combination of streets, public land, railroad rights-of-way, bodies of water or watercourses, or any other barrier to the continuity of development. 15. BLOCK, DOUBLE-TIERED A residential block bounded on all sides by streets and within which lots fronts only on two of the surrounding streets. In the R-2, R-2A and R-3 Districts, the Corner Lots of such Blocks shall be considered “Standard Corner Lots”. (see diagram below)  Double-Tiered Block 16. BLOCK FRONTAGE The aggregate width of all the property on one (1) side of a street between two intersecting streets measured along the street right-of-way line, or if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on one (1) side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street. 17. BOARDER An individual other than a member of a family occupying the dwelling unit or part thereof, who, for compensation, is furnished sleeping accommodations and meals and may be provided personal care, financial services, counseling, or other services. 18. BUFFER A strip of land retained in an undeveloped state to separate incompatible land uses, promote visual harmony, reduce noise, divert emissions, reduce the effects of adjacent lighting and enhance the natural environment. Buffers may consist of existing or planted trees, shrubs or vegetation, fences, walls or berms. 19. BUILDING A structure, having a roof supported by columns or walls and designed to be used as a place of occupancy, storage or shelter. a. BUILDING, ACCESSORY A Building detached from the principal building located on the same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate in area, extent, and purpose to the principal building or use. b. BUILDING, PRINCIPAL The primary building on a lot or a building that houses a principal use. 20. BUILDING HEIGHT For flat or parapet roof buildings, the vertical distance measured from grade level at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof. For pitched-roof buildings, the vertical distance measured from grade level at the front of the building to the average of the eaves and ridges. Building Height for pitched-roof buildings 21. BUILDING LINE A line generally parallel to the street right-of-way line touching that part of the building closest to the street, or in reference to a rear building line, closest to the rear lot line. Article 3 DEFINITIONS 17   22. BUILDING SPACING The minimum distance between buildings, measured from the outermost projection, excluding bay windows, chimneys, flues, columns, ornamental features, cornices and eaves. 23. CARPORT A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage of motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than three (3) sides. 24. CITY The City of Calera, Alabama. 25. CONDITIONAL USE A use that would not generally be appropriate throughout a zoning district without restriction(s), but which, if controlled as to number, location, area, size, traffic, noise, lighting or other impacts, would not be detrimental to public health. This use is permitted subject to a conditional use permit being granted by the Commission and further subject to appropriate permits being issued in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance. 26. CONDOMINIUM A building, or group of buildings, in which dwelling units, offices, or floor area are owned individually and the structure, common areas, and facilities are owned by the owners on a proportional, undivided basis. 27. COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL The City Council of the City of Calera. 28. CUL-DE-SAC See “Thoroughfare”. 29. DENSITY The minimum required lot area per dwelling unit or the maximum number of dwelling units per acre of site area. 30. DEVELOPMENT The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels, the construction, reconstruction, conversion, alteration, relocation or enlargement of a structure; any mining, dredging, fitting, grading, paving, excavation, drilling or disturbance of land; and, any use or extension of the use of the land. 31. EASEMENT Authorization by a property owner of the use of a designated part of his property by another for a specified purpose. 32. ENGINEER or REGISTERED ENGINEER A professional engineer registered in the State of Alabama. 33. FAÇADE The exterior wall of a building that fronts on a public street, park or plaza. 34. FAMILY Any one of the following arrangements when living together in a dwelling as a single-housekeeping unit: a. an individual b. two (2) or more persons related by legal adoption, blood, or a licit marriage plus up to two (2) unrelated individuals c. a group of not more than four (4) unrelated persons. 35. FENCE An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of materials or vegetation, which is planted or retained as a means to enclose or screen areas of land. 36. FLOOR AREA, GROSS The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all enclosed floors of a building, including cellars, basements, mezzanines, penthouses, corridors, and lobbies from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from the centerline of a common wall separating two buildings, but excluding any space with a floor-to-ceiling height of less than six and one-half (6.5) ft. 37. FRONT-LOADED Having vehicular access from the front of the property, requiring a driveway along a front lot line. 38. GRADE LEVEL For buildings, the average level of the finished grade at the front building line. For trees, landscaping, and light fixtures, the level of finished grade at the base of the tree, plant or fixture. Grade Level 39. HIGH TRAFFIC CORRIDOR Land adjoining a public street or highway with a traffic volume equal to or exceeding 10,000 vehicles per day. 40. IMPROVEMENT Any permanent structure that becomes a part of, is placed upon or is affixed to real estate. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 18   41. LIVABLE FLOOR AREA Any heated, livable floor space within a dwelling, at ground level or above, usable for any combination of sleeping, eating, cooking and recreation purposes. 42. LOT A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed or built upon. Types of Lots 43. LOT, CORNER A lot abutting two (2) or more streets at their intersections. a. NON-STANDARD CORNER LOT A corner lot in the R-2, R-2A, or R-3 District on other than a double-tiered block. b. STANDARD CORNER LOT A corner lot on a double-tiered block in the R-2, R-2A or R-3 District. Standard and Non-Standard Corner Lots 44. LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE or THROUGH A lot having frontage on two (2) or more streets, but not at their intersections. 45. LOT, INTERIOR A lot other than a corner lot. 46. LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE A double frontage lot having a rear yard on a major street and a front yard and access to a local or marginal access street. 47. LOT, FLAG A parcel of land which does not have the required minimum lot width at the front lot line but has direct access to a public street through a narrow strip of and which is part of the same lot. The lot lines of the narrow portion of the lot (the flag pole) are parallel or nearly parallel. 48. LOT AREA The minimum area contained within the property of the individual parcels of land shown on a subdivision plat or survey, excluding any area within an existing or future street right-of-way or any area devoted to common open space. 49. LOT FRONTAGE The length of the front lot line measured at the street right-of-way line. 50. LOT LINE A line of record bounding a lot which divides one (1) lot from another or from a street or from any other public or private place. Article 3 DEFINITIONS 19   51. LOT LINE, FRONT The lot line separating a lot from the street right-of-way. In the case of standard corner lots, there shall be a primary and secondary front lot line. The shorter of the two shall be the primary front lot line. For all other corner lots, both lot lines shall be considered front lot lines. 52. LOT LINE, SIDE Any lot line other than a front lot line or a rear lot line. 53. LOT LINE, REAR That lot line that is opposite and most distant from the front line. In the case of an irregular or triangular lot, a line ten (10) ft in length, entirely within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line shall be considered to be the rear lot line. In the case of a double frontage lot, there are no rear lot lines, but only front lot lines. Adjusted Rear Lot Line  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 20    Lot Line Configurations 54. LOT OF RECORD A lot that exists as shown or described on a plat or deed in the records of the local registry of deeds. 55. LOT WIDTH The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot measured at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front lot line at the minimum required building setback line. In the case of only one side lot line, lot width is the distance measured between the side lot line and the opposite lot line. 56. NEIGHBORHOOD PARK A type of common open space, at least 1.0 acre in size that provides residents of a development with an area for recreation and protection of natural land resources. The neighborhood park shall contain amenities such as greenery, seating, playground equipment, pavilions, and other pedestrian friendly elements. 57. NON-CONFORMITIES Lawful uses of lots, structures or characteristics of uses which, as a result of the adoption of this Ordinance or subsequent amendment thereto, no longer conform to all applicable zoning provisions. 58. NON-RESIDENTIAL Land uses including agricultural, institutional, commercial, lodging and industrial activities. Mixed-use developments shall also be considered non-residential uses. 59. OPEN SPACE, COMMON Land area within a development that is held in common ownership and maintained by a property owner's association for all of the owners for recreation, protection of natural land features, amenities or buffers; is freely accessible to all owners of the development; and, is protected by covenant or deed restriction to insure that it remains in such uses. Common open space does not include surface water bodies, (i.e. rivers, streams, lakes or ponds) nor land occupied by non-residential buildings, common driveways, or parking areas or street right-of-way; nor does it include lots for single family or multi-family dwellings. Article 3 DEFINITIONS 21   60. OUTDOOR STORAGE The keeping, in an unenclosed area, of any goods, materials, merchandise, products or vehicles in the same place for more than forty-eight (48) hours. This definition only applies to zoning classifications where outdoor storage is allowed by special exception. 61. OWNER The person having the right and legal title to, beneficial interest in or a contractual right to purchase a lot or parcel of land. 62. PERIMETER The boundaries or borders of a lot, tract or parcel of land. 63. PLANNING COMMISSION or COMMISSION Shall mean the Planning Commission of the City of Calera, Alabama. 64. POCKET PARK A type of common open space, at least than 0.25 acres in size, but no more than 1.0 acres in size that provides residents of a development with an area for recreation and protection of natural land resources. The pocket park shall contain amenities such as greenery, seating, playground equipment, pavilions, and other pedestrian friendly elements. 65. PORCH A roofed open area, which may be screened, attached to or part of a building and with direct access to or from it. 66. PREMISES A lot, parcel, tract or plot or land together with the structures hereon. 67. PROPERTY LINE The lot line or boundary line. 68. REAR-LOADED Having vehicular access by way of an alley or similar means so as not to require a driveway along a front lot line. 69. RETAIL The rental or sale of goods and merchandise (usually to the general public for personal or household use or consumption, although businesses and institutional clients m ay also be served) and rendering of services incidental to the rental or sale of such goods. 70. SCREEN To visually shield or obscure one abutting or nearby structure or use from another by means of opaque fencing, walls, berm or densely planted vegetation. 71. SIGHT DISTANCE, INTERSECTION The length of a line of sight between a motorist, when stopped at an intersection or driveway, and the nearest intersection, driveway, alley or other signalized or non-signalized access point to the left or to the right of the motorist. See also “Sight Triangle”. 72. SIGHT TRIANGLE, CLEAR A triangular-shaped portion of land established at street or driveway intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering or leaving the intersection. [See typical illustration over-leaf.] 73. SITE Any plot or parcel of land or combination of contiguous lots or parcels of land. 74. SITE AREA A minimum land area required to qualify for a particular use or development. Site area is taken from an actual site survey and excludes: a. Land within an existing or future street right-of-way or utility right-of-way easement. b. Land which is not contiguous or is cut off by a major barrier. c. Land which is part of a previously approved development. d. Land which is zoned for another use. 75. SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE A use that would not generally be appropriate without restriction(s) throughout the zoning district, but which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would not be detrimental to public health. This use is permitted subject to a special exception use permit being granted by the Calera Zoning Board of Adjustment and further subject to appropriate permits being issued in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance. 76. STOOP A covered open area, where the building is aligned close to the front lot line and the first story is elevated from the sidewalk to provide privacy for the windows. The entrance includes a stair and landing that may be external or recessed. The stairs may be parallel to or perpendicular to the facade. 77. STORY That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor and upper surface of the floor or ceiling next above. A mezzanine or partial floor shall be counted as a story if the vertical distance from the floor next below to the floor or ceiling next above is twenty-four (24) ft or more. A basement shall be counted as a story if it is used as livable area (in the case of dwellings) or is used by the principal use (in the case of other uses). 78. STREET See “Thoroughfare”. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 22   79. STRUCTURE A combination of materials that form a construction for use, occupancy, or ornamentation whether installed on, above or below the surface of land or water. All buildings are structures but not all structures are buildings 80. SUBDIVISION The division of a lot, tract or parcel or land into two (2) or more lots, plats, sites or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or of building development. Such term includes re-subdivision of land and when appropriate to the context relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or territory subdivided. 81. TERRACE A level, landscaped or surfaced area, including patios, on a lot directly adjacent to a principal building at or within three (3) feet of the finished grade and not covered by a permanent roof. 82. THOROUGHFARE A vehicular way dedicated for public use including all land within the right-of-way. Thoroughfares are further classified as: a. ARTERIAL A major thoroughfare serving as a primary artery, intended to mainly carry through traffic and to connect major activity centers in the City; including US Highway 31, State Highways 25 and 70, and County Road 22. b. COLLECTOR A thoroughfare that collects traffic from an area and moves it to the arterial network while providing some access to abutting property. A collector will generally have lower design speeds than an arterial but higher than a local street. A “Residential Collector” is a collector that provides direct access to residential properties. c. CUL DE SAC A short thoroughfare designed to have one end permanently closed and terminated by a vehicular turnaround. d. FREEWAY A controlled access thoroughfare with four or more lanes providing fast, efficient movement of large volumes of traffic over a considerable distance and by prohibiting access except at controlled intervals; including Interstate 65. e. LOCAL OR MINOR STREET A minor thoroughfare used primarily for access to abutting properties. A “Residential Street” is a local street serving primarily residential property. 83. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven and is primarily designed as temporary living accommodations for recreational and camping purposes, including but not limited to: travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers, and self-propelled motor homes. 84. USE The activity or function for which land or buildings are designed, arranged, or intended or for which land or buildings are occupied or maintained. 85. VARIANCE Permission granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment to depart from the literal requirements (excluding use regulations) of this Ordinance, pursuant to §2.8. 86. YARD An open area that lies between the principal building or buildings and the nearest lot line. The yard shall be measured as the shortest distance between the structure and the lot line. Article 3 DEFINITIONS 23    Yard Configurations 87. YARD, FRONT A yard extending the full width of the lot between any building and the front lot line and measured perpendicular from the building to the closest point to the front lot line. Standard corner lots in the R-2, R-2A and R-3 Districts have a primary (deeper) front yard and a secondary (shallower) front yard. 88. YARD, REAR A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear lot line and the principal building and measured perpendicular from the building to the closest point of the rear lot line. 89. YARD, REQUIRED The minimum open space between a lot line and the yard line within which no structure is permitted to be located except as specifically provided for otherwise in this Ordinance. 90. YARD, SIDE A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the side lot line and the principal building and measured perpendicular from the side lot line to the closest point of the principal building. 91. ZONING BOARD OR ADJUSTMENT (ZBA) The Zoning Board of Adjustment of Calera, Alabama. §3.5. Uses Defined When referred to in this Ordinance, the following uses shall have the meanings defined in this Section: 3.5.1. Agricultural Uses 1. FARM A parcel of land, in one ownership, used for agricultural purposes, including farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary uses for packing, treating, or storing  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 24   the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities. 2. FARM SUPPORT BUSINESS A commercial establishment engaged in the sale of farm support goods and services, including the following activities: a. The sale of feed, grains, fertilizers, pesticides and similar farm support goods b. The provision of warehousing and storage facilities for raw farm products c. The provision of veterinary services to farm animals 3. FOWL Chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, quail, guineas, etc. 4. HOBBY FARM A tract of land used for the keeping or maintenance of farm animals personally useful to the occupants of a dwelling on the same tract. 5. KENNEL An establishment in which dogs, cats or similar domesticated animals are bred. Boarding, animal sales, training and grooming services may be a part of the use. 6. LIVESTOCK Cows, horses, goats, sheep, swine, ponies, etc. 7. LIVESTOCK SALES The sale of livestock within an enclosed yard or structure, including livestock markets, horse or cattle auctions and similar activities. 8. STABLE A used for the shelter or care of horses or cattle. 3.5.2. Residential Uses 1. DUPLEX A building containing two (2) single family dwelling units totally separated from one another by an unpierced wall extending from basement to roof. 2. DWELLING Any building or portion thereof, which is designed and used for residential occupancy. 3. DWELLING, DETACHED See “Dwelling, Single Family Detached.” 4. DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY A building containing three (3) or more dwelling units on a commonly shared lot. 5. DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED A single-family dwelling attached to one other single-family dwelling by a common vertical wall, with each dwelling located on a separate lot. 6. DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED A building containing one dwelling unit and that is not attached to any dwelling by any means and is surrounded by open space or yards. 7. GARDEN HOME A detached, single family dwelling on a small lot. 8. INDEPENDENT LIVING FACILITY A multi-family residential facility for the elderly. These facilities may provide meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation, and social and recreational activities. Such facilities do not provide, in a majority of the units, assistance with activities of daily living such as supervision of medication, bathing, dressing, toileting, etc. 9. MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A A double-wide or larger Manufactured Home constructed after July 1, 1976 that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction and that satisfies the following criteria: a. The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its width, with length measured along the longest axis and width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis. b. The manufactured home has a minimum of 960 sf of enclosed and heated living area. c. The roof has a minimum vertical rise of three (3) ft for each twelve (12) ft of horizontal run and the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in standard residential construction. d. All roof structures have an eave projection of no less than six (6) inches, which may include a gutter. e. The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum horizontal siding, wood, or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction f. The manufactured home is set up in accord with the standards set by the Alabama Manufactured Home Institute. g. The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights have been removed. Article 3 DEFINITIONS 25   10. MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS B A single-wide manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976 that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction. 11. MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS C A manufactured home built before 1976 that does not meet the definition of a Class A or Class B Manufactured Home. Class C Manufactured Homes are not allowed in the City, except as existing structures permitted prior to the adoption of this Ordinance. 12. MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION A division of a tract of land into two (2) or more lots, plats, sites or other subdivision of land which meets all required regulations and is designed and intended for the siting of Class A Manufactured Homes. 13. MANUFACTURED HOME PARK A site containing spaces with required improvements and utilities that are leased for the long-term placement of manufactured homes. The site may also include services and facilities for the residents. 14. MANUFACTURED HOME LOT A lot that is designed for use within a manufactured home subdivision. 15. MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE A space that is designed for use within a manufactured home park. 16. MODULAR HOME A structure intended for use as a single-family detached dwelling manufactured off-site and assembled on-site, all in accordance with the local or state building code. 17. TOWNHOUSE A single-family dwelling in a row of at least three (3) such units, in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no unit is located over another, and each unit is separated from any other unit by one or more vertical common fire-resistant walls. 3.5.3. Institutional Uses. Institutional uses include structures or land occupied by a group, cooperative, or other entity created for non- profit purposes or for public use or services; but do not include those of an industrial nature such as garages, repair or storage yards, and warehouses. For the purposes of this Ordinance, institutional uses are categorized as shown below. Low Intensity • civic, service, and fraternal organizations; cultural facilities • places of assembly up to 150 seats • day care centers; dormitories; group care homes with more than 10 residents • nursing homes, rest homes, and other homes for the aged up to 10,000 sf Medium Intensity • government buildings up to 12,500 sf • elementary and junior high/middle schools; places of assembly up to 300 seats • stadiums and arenas up to 3,000 seats • health and other institutions up to 35,000 sf High Intensity • government buildings greater than 12,500 sf • places of assembly greater than 300 seats • high schools, universities, colleges, junior colleges • stadiums and arenas greater than 3,000 seats • health and other Institutions greater than 35,000 sf  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 26   1. ANIMAL SHELTER A facility used to house or contain stray, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted animals and that is owned, operated, or maintained by a public body, established humane society, animal welfare society, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare, protection, and humane treatment of animals. 2. ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY Licensed homes for the aged, intermediate institutions and related institutions (not otherwise defined in this Ordinance) whose primary purpose is to furnish room, board, laundry, personal care and other non-medical services, regardless of what it may be named or called, for not less than twenty-four (24) hours in any week, to individuals not related by blood or marriage to the owner or administrator. This kind of care implies sheltered protection and a supervised environment for persons, who, because of age or disabilities, are incapable of living independently in their own homes or in a commercial board and room situation, yet who do not require the medical and nursing services provided by a Nursing Home. In these facilities, there might be available temporarily and incidentally, the same type of limited medical attention that an individual would receive if living at home. 3. CEMETERY Human burial grounds. 4. PET CEMETERY Burial grounds for small domestic animals (pets). 5. CLUB A group of people organized for a common purpose to pursue common goals, interests and activities and usually characterized by certain membership qualifications, payment of fees or dues, which holds regular meetings and has a constitution or by-laws. 6. COMMUNITY CENTER A facility used for social, educational, cultural and/or recreational programs and activities. 7. COUNTRY CLUB A recreational facility, usually restricted to members and their guests, which generally includes a clubhouse, dining establishments and recreational facilities such as golf course(s), tennis courts, and swimming pools. 8. GROUP CARE HOME A dwelling for the sheltered care of persons, which, in addition to providing food and shelter, may also provide some combination of personal care, social or counseling services, and transportation. 9. HALFWAY HOUSE See “Group Care Home”. 10. HOSPITAL An establishment which provides health services primarily for inpatient medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including accessory facilities such as laboratories, pharmacies, out-patient clinics training facilities, gift shops, coffee shops, cafeterias and staff offices. 11. INDEPENDENT LIVING FACILITY See “Independent Living Facility” under §3.5.2 Residential Uses. 12. MILITARY INSTALLATION A government-sponsored defense facility, including military bases, national guard armories, military reserve centers and similar uses. 13. NURSING CARE FACILITY A licensed institution providing skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower level than that provided in a hospital but at a higher level than provided in an assisted or independent living facility. 14. PARK Publicly-owned and operated parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities and open spaces. For the purposes of this Ordinance, parks owned and operated by a property-owners association are referred to as “Common Open Spaces.” 15. PENAL INSTITUTION A public institution housing inmates for correction or rehabilitation. 16. PLACE OF ASSEMBLY Buildings arranged for public assembly or for religious purposes, such as, community centers, churches and synagogues, including related facilities for instruction, meeting, recreation, lodging, eating and other integrally related activities. 17. PUBLIC BUILDING Buildings arranged for the purpose of providing public services, not otherwise defined in this Section, including government offices, post offices, museums, libraries, transit stations, police and fire stations, emergency service stations, civil defense operations and similar uses. 18. PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY A facility that provides public utility services to the public at large, including water and sewer facilities, gas distribution facilities, electric transmission and distribution facilities and cable transmission and distribution facilities. 19. PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE Essential utility services necessary to support development and which involve only minor structures such as lines and poles. 20. SCHOOL Any building or part thereof designed, constructed, or used for education or instruction in any branch of knowledge. 3.5.4. Commercial Uses  Article 3 DEFINITIONS 27   1. AIRPORT A place where aircraft can land and take off. Such use may include terminals, hangers, refueling and repair facilities, passenger accommodations and other integrally related facilities. 2. ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS Any establishment which as a regular or substantial course of conduct offers to its patrons products, merchandise, services or entertainment relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical parts. “Adult- oriented business” does not include those uses or activities, the regulation of which is preempted by state law. “Adult- oriented business” shall also include any establishment which provides or allows performers, models, actors, actresses or employees to appear in any place in lingerie or similar attire which does not opaquely cover specified anatomical parts. 3. ALTERNATIVE FINANCIAL SERVICES Any business, excluding those licensed by an appropriate state or federal agency as a bank, saving and loan association, or credit union, that operates as a check cashing business, pawnshop/ pawnbroker, payday loan (deferred presentment) business, or title loan business. 4. BAKERY, MINOR An establishment which bakes goods for on-premises retail sale only. 5. BANK or FINANCIAL INSTITUTION A business engaged in providing banking or financial services to the general public, such as a bank, savings and loan institution, credit union, finance company and similar uses. 6. BED AND BREAKFAST Overnight accommodations and a morning meal, within a single-family detached dwelling, provided to guests for compensation. 7. BOARDING HOUSE A dwelling unit or part thereof in which, for compensation, lodging and meals are provided and personal and financial services may be offered to boarders on long-term basis (at least month-to-month). Each room intended to be rented does not constitute a dwelling unit as defined in this Ordinance. 8. BREW PUB An establishment, meeting the qualifications of a brew pub under the State alcoholic beverage control laws in Title 28, Chapter 4A of the Code of Alabama 1975, as amended, where beer is manufactured or brewed, in a quantity not to exceed 10,000 barrels in any one year, for consumption on the premises or for sale to any designated wholesaler for resale; and which contains a restaurant or otherwise provides food for consumption on the premises. 9. BROADCAST STUDIO See “Broadcast Studio” under §3.5.6 Telecommunications Uses. 10. BUSINESS or PROFESSIONAL OFFICE A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a business, profession, service or industry and generally furnished with desks, tables, files, and communication equipment. 11. BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICE A place of business which supplies support services primarily to business or professional offices or services, such as photocopy, office equipment, supplies and services, cleaning services, computer and office equipment repair and similar services. 12. CAMPGROUND A plot of ground on which two or more campsites are located, established, or maintained for occupancy by tents, recreational vehicles or similar accommodations, as temporary living quarters for recreation, education, or vacation purposes. 13. CAR WASH Any building or premises used for washing motor vehicles. 14. CBD SHOP A free standing business establishment for which more than fifty (50) percent of the gross floor area is devoted to the display, sale, use and storage of CBD products. 15. CLINIC An establishment where patients are admitted for examination and treatment on an outpatient basis by physicians, dentists, other medical personnel, psychologists, or social workers and where such examination and treatment generally require a stay of less than twenty-four (24) hours. 16. COMMERCIAL PARKING Parking of motor vehicles on a temporary basis within a commercially-operated, off-street parking lot or garage. 17. COMMERCIAL SCHOOL A private, gainful business providing instructional service in the arts, business, crafts, trades or professions. 18. CONVENIENCE STORE A retail establishment of up to 5,000 sf selling primarily food, beverages, household items, newspapers and magazines, candy and a limited amount of freshly prepared foods such as sandwiches and salads for off- premises consumption. 19. CONSIGNMENT STORE A retail establishment where more than fifty percent (50%) of the goods are placed on consignment. Consignment is the art of placing goods in the hands of another, while still retaining ownership, until the goods are sold. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 28   20. DAY CARE CENTER A licensed facility, other than a residence, providing care for part of a twenty-four (24) hour day to children, elderly, handicapped or infirm persons in accordance with §7.21 Day Care Facilities. 21. DAY CARE HOME, FAMILY A licensed service operated from a single-family dwelling by the resident, providing care for part of a twenty-four (24) hour day to children in accordance with §7.21 Day Care Facilities. 22. ENTERTAINMENT, INDOOR A commercial establishment providing spectator entertainment within an enclosed building, including movie theaters, playhouses, etc. 23. ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR A commercial establishment providing spectator entertainment in open or partially enclosed or screened facilities, including sports arenas, racing tracks, drive-in theaters, amusement parks, etc. 24. FUNERAL HOME A building or part thereof used for the preparation of the deceased for burial and the display of the deceased and rituals connected therewith before burial or cremation. Funeral homes may also include the storage of caskets and related funerary items. 25. GARDEN CENTER or NURSERY The growing, cultivation, storage and sale of garden plants, flowers, trees, shrubs, and fertilizers, as well as the sale of garden tools and similar accessory and ancillary products, to the general public. 26. GASOLINE SERVICE STATION Any building, land area, or other premises, or portion thereof, used for the retail dispensing or sales of vehicular fuels; servicing and repair of automobiles; and including as an accessory use the sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries, and similar vehicle accessories. 27. GENERAL RETAIL, ENCLOSED Retail sales of goods and services, not otherwise defined in this Section, including, but not limited to; food sales, department stores, clothing stores, home furnishings, appliance stores, automobile parts and supply stores, video rental, gift shops, florist shops, hardware stores, specialty shops, jewelry stores, variety stores, sporting goods stores, antique shops, auction houses and similar retail activities. 28. GENERAL RETAIL, UNENCLOSED The display and sale of products and services, primarily outside of a building or structure, including vehicles; garden supplies, flowers, shrubs, and other plant materials; gas; boats and aircraft; farm equipment; manufactured homes; burial monuments; building and landscape materials; flea markets; and lumberyards. 29. GOLD OR SLIVER OBJECT DEALERS An establishment that offers to buy gold or silver, or gold or silver objects. 30. GROCERY STORE or SUPER MARKET A retail establishment primarily selling food as well as other convenience and household goods. 31. HOME OCCUPATION A business, profession, occupation or trade conducted for gain or support within a dwelling pursuant to §7.9. 32. HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER A place of business providing building, yard and garden materials, appliances, tools and supplies at retail or wholesale. 33. HOTEL An establishment offering sleeping accommodations to guests, in which lodging rooms are accessed from the interior of the building. Such facility may also include, as an integral part of operations, such services as restaurants, meeting rooms, banquet rooms, gift shops, recreational facilities, etc. Hotels may also include, as an incidental use, a liquor lounge. 34. INN A commercial facility offering transient lodging accommodations on a daily or weekly basis, in which lodging rooms are accessed from the interior of the building. Inns do not include liquor lounges. 35. LAUNDRY SERVICES Laundromat, laundry and dry cleaning pick-up stations, dryer, and clothing storage, but excluding laundering, dry cleaning, and dyeing plants. 36. LIQUOR LOUNGE A licensed establishment engaged in the preparation, sale or serving of liquor for consumption on the premises. This shall include but not be limited to the following terms: taverns, bars, cocktail lounges, nightclubs and similar uses where liquor consumption is a primary or incidental activity on the premises of the establishment. Not included in this definition are establishments, which sell alcoholic beverages for off-premise consumption only, such as a package stores, State Alcoholic Beverage stores, supermarkets, etc. 37. LIVE WORK A type of mixed-use development, in which one (1) single-family dwelling unit is located in the same building as a non-residential use. Typically, the dwelling unit is located in an upper floor with the non-residential use at ground level. The business use is typically owned or managed by the resident. 38. MASSAGE PARLOR Any establishment where nonmedical, nonsurgical, nonosteopathic and nonchiropractic manipulative exercises, massages or procedures are practiced upon the human body, for other than cosmetic or beautifying purposes,  Article 3 DEFINITIONS 29   with or without the use of mechanical or other devices, by anyone not a physician, surgeon, osteopath, chiropractor, or certified massage therapist certified by the state in accordance with the Alabama Massage Therapy Licensure Act of 1996. (1) The definition shall not include the practice of Massage in any licensed hospital or nursing home, nor by a physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur or professional athlete or athletic team or school athletic program, nor by any Alabama State licensed physical therapist. (2) The term “massage parlor” shall not include a spa, wellness center, health club, beauty salon, gymnasium, or other business providing health, beauty, medical or physical fitness services in which massages are incidental and one of a series of services provided. 39. MANUFACTURED HOME SALES A lot or tract of land used for display of manufactured homes for sale. 40. MEDICAL SUPPORT SERVICE A place of business which supplies medical support services to individuals, medical practitioners, clinics and hospitals, such as a pharmacy (where the business activity is limited to the filling of prescriptions and the sale of drugs and medical supplies), medical and surgical supply store, an optician and the like. 41. MICROBREWERY Any building used for the production of beer that manufactures less than 40,000 barrels per year, with a barrel containing 31 U.S. liquid gallons. A microbrewery, actively and continuously engaged in the manufacture of alcoholic beverages on the manufacturer’s licensed premises, may conduct tastings or samplings on the licensed premises, and for that purpose give away or sell alcoholic beverages manufactured there for consumption on only the premises where manufactured. 42. MINI-WAREHOUSE A building or group of buildings containing separate, individual, and private storage spaces of varying sizes available for lease or rent for varying periods of time. 43. MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT The combination of a residential use with commercial and/or lodging uses on the same site or within the same building. 44. MOTEL An establishment offering sleeping accommodations for guests, in which lodging rooms are accessed from the exterior of the building. Such facility may also include, as an integral part of operations such services as restaurants, meeting rooms, banquet rooms, gift shops, recreational facilities, etc. Motels may also include, as an incidental use, a liquor lounge. 45. OPEN AIR MARKET Retail sales of arts, crafts, produce, discount or used goods which are located partially or wholly outside of an enclosed building. This may include produce market, craft market, farmers market or similar activities. 46. PERSONAL SERVICE A retail establishment primarily engaged in providing services involving the care of a person or his or her personal goods or apparel. 47. PET SERVICES A place other than a Kennel where household pets are groomed, trained or given medical care. Temporary boarding, either as primary service to pet owners or incidental to the other services provided, may be a part of the use. 48. PRINTING ESTABLISHMENT, MINOR Blue printing, copying, printing, engraving or other reproduction services limited to 2,500 sf of floor space. 49. RECREATION A commercial establishment providing recreational or sports activities to participants, including bowling alleys, billiard parlors, video game centers, ice and roller skating rinks, driving ranges, miniature golf courses, conventional golf courses, swimming pools, tennis courts and other commercial recreational and sports activities. 50. RESTAURANT, STANDARD An establishment where food and drink are prepared, served and consumed, mostly within the principal building. 51. RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD An establishment where food and drink are rapidly prepared for carry-out, fast delivery, drive- through or drive-in and may also include facilities for standard sit-down consumption by patrons. 52. SECONDHAND STORE A retail establishment that sells previously used merchandise, more than thirty percent (30%) of which is not donated, such as clothing, furniture, appliances, household goods, sporting goods, books, recreational equipment, toys or other merchandise not considered to be antique, that is in good repair or has been restored or reconditioned to a clean and useable condition. This definition excludes antique stores, pawnshops, thrift stores, consignment stores and precious metal dealerships. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 30   53. SELF-STORAGE FACILITY A building or structure containing separate storages spaces of limited sizes that are leased or rented on an individual basis, which does not include warehouses or loading docks.SHOPPING CENTER A group of commercial establishments, planned, constructed, and managed as a total entity with shared parking and driveway facilities. 54. STUDIO A place of work for an artist, photographer or craftsman, including instruction, display, production and retail sales of materials produced on the premises. 55. TATTOO OR BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT Any establishment in which body piercing or tattooing is offered or performed. 56. THRIFT STORE A retail establishment that derives more than thirty percent (30%) of its sales from donated, previously used merchandise such as clothing, furniture, appliances, household goods, sporting goods, books, recreational equipment, toys or other merchandise not considered to be antique. 57. TOBACCO, VAPE, OR E-CIGARETTE SHOP A business establishment for which more than fifty (50) percent of the gross floor area is devoted to the display, sale, use and storage of vape or tobacco products, including electronic cigarettes and related accessories. Related accessories include any apparatus, equipment or instrument used for smoking tobacco and/or inhaling vapor from nicotine enriched solutions and/or the burning or vaporizing of controlled substances. 58. TRUCK STOP A commercial establishment which may contain a restaurant(standard) or a delicatessen; a gift shop; provisions for the incidental sale of gasoline, including diesel fuel; designated areas for the temporary parking of large trucks/rigs, including overnight parking; and, the sale of vehicle equipment, motor oil and other vehicle accessories. Such a facility may also engage in minor vehicle repair activities, as defined in this ordinance. This use shall not be confused with TRUCK TERMINAL, defined herein. 59. VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT SALES, MAJOR A place of business engaged in the sale or rental of heavy trucks (over one ton), construction equipment, tractors, farm implements and similar equipment, including the storage, maintenance and servicing of such vehicles and equipment. 60. VEHICLE SALES OR RENTAL A commercial establishment engaged in the sale or rental of automobiles, light trucks, recreational vehicles, boats, motorcycles, including the incidental parking, storage, maintenance, servicing and repair of such vehicles. 61. VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR A place of business engaged in sales, installation, and servicing of mechanical equipment and parts, including audio equipment and electrical work, lubrication, tune-ups, wheel alignment, tire balancing, brake and muffler work, battery charging and/or replacement and similar activities. 62. VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR A place of business engaged in the repair and maintenance of vehicles including painting, body work, rebuilding of engines or transmissions, upholstery work, fabrication of parts and similar activities. 63. Wrecker Service - A business establishment involved in the recovery of wrecked, junked, abandoned or repossessed vehicles including the repair of vehicles including as an incidental use the storage of such vehicles for no longer than allowed by Section 4.11. This shall not include the repair of vehicles nor the salvage, dismantling or sales of used auto parts on the premises, which shall constitute a Vehicle Repair Service of a Salvage Yard, respectively. Storage of vehicles other than within a structure is subject to the requirements of Section 9.4 Screening. 3.5.5. Industrial Uses 1. BAKERY, MAJOR An establishment which bakes goods primarily for wholesale and/or retail and in which may include storage and distribution facilities. 2. CONSTRUCTION SERVICE A place of business engaged in construction activities and incidental storage as well as wholesaling of building materials (but not a home improvement center which also sells at retail) such as a building contractor, trade contractor or wholesale building supply store. 3. HEAVY INDUSTRY Meat or poultry processing, slaughterhouse, the storage or manufacturing of flammable, explosive or toxic materials or other materials generally considered to be hazardous or offensive in nature. 4. LAUNDERING PLANTS Establishments primarily engaged in high volume laundry and garment services, including commercial and industrial laundries; garment pressing and dry cleaning; linen supply; diaper service; industrial laundries; carpet and upholstery cleaners, but excluding laundromats and dry cleaning pick-up stations without dry cleaning equipment. 5. MANUFACTURING, ARTISAN The shared or individual use of hand-tools, mechanical tools and electronic tools for the manufacture of finished products or parts including design, processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of products; as well as the incidental storage, sales and distribution of such products. Typical artisan manufacturing uses  Article 3 DEFINITIONS 31   include, but are not limited to electronic goods, food and bakery products; beverages; printmaking; household appliances; leather products; jewelry and clothing/apparel; metal work; furniture; glass or ceramic production; paper manufacturing. 6. MANUFACTURING, GENERAL The basic processing and manufacturing of materials or products predominately from extracted or raw materials and the incidental storage, sale and distribution of such products. 7. MANUFACTURING, LIGHT The manufacture, predominately from previously prepared materials of finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and packing of such products and the incidental storage, sale and distribution of such products. 8. MAINTENANCE SERVICE An establishment providing building and yard maintenance, janitorial, exterminating, landscaping, window cleaning, office cleaning and similar services. 9. OUTDOOR STORAGE The keeping, in an unenclosed area, of any goods, materials, merchandise, products or vehicles in the same place for more than forty-eight (48) hours. This definition only applies to zoning classifications where outdoor storage is allowed by special exception. 10. PRINTING ESTABLISHMENT, MAJOR Blue printing, copying, printing, engraving or other reproduction services with no limit on floor space/area. 11. RECYCLING PLANT A facility, other than a junkyard, in which recyclables, such as newspapers, magazines, books and other paper products; glass, metal cans and other products are recycled, reprocessed and treated to return such products to a condition in which they may be used in new products. 12. RESEARCH LABORATORY A facility for investigation into the natural, physical, or social sciences, which may include engineering and product development. 13. RESOURCE EXTRACTION The removal of soil, sand, stone, chert, clay, gravel, limestone, or other minerals or similar materials, for commercial purposes, including quarries, sand and gravel operations, gas extraction, and mining operations, and the loading, sizing, crushing, and processing of such materials, and the incidental storage, sale and distribution of such materials. 14. SALVAGE YARD or JUNK YARD A facility or area for storing, collecting, selling, dismantling, shredding, compressing, disposal, or salvaging of scrap, junk, discarded material, or equipment. 15. SANITARY LANDFILL A State-approved site for solid waste disposal employing an engineering method of disposing of solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading, compacting to the smallest volume and applying cover material over all exposed waste at the end of each operating day. 16. TRUCK TERMINAL Land and buildings used as a relay station for the transfer of a load from one vehicle to another or one party to another. The terminal cannot be used for permanent or long-term accessory storage for principal land uses at other locations. The terminal facility may include storage areas for trucks and buildings or areas for the repair and maintenance of trucks associated with the terminal. 17. Wrecker Service - A business establishment involved in the recovery of wrecked, junked, abandoned or repossessed vehicles including the repair of vehicles including as an incidental use the storage of such vehicles for no longer than allowed by Section 4.11. This shall not include the repair of vehicles nor the salvage, dismantling or sales of used auto parts on the premises, which shall constitute a Vehicle Repair Service of a Salvage Yard, respectively. Storage of vehicles other than within a structure is subject to the requirements of Section 9.4 Screening. 3.5.6. Telecommunications Uses 1. AMATEUR RADIO TOWER A tower with one or more antennas connected to radio equipment operated by a licensed amateur radio operator in accordance with applicable FCC laws and regulations. 2. ANTENNA A device used to transmit and/or receive radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrial structures and/or satellites. 3. ANTENNA TOWER A structure that is intended to support antennas and related equipment used to transmit and/or receive telecommunications signals. 4. BROADCAST STUDIO An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished through the use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms, including film and sound recording, a radio station, television studio or a telegraphic service office. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 32   5. TRANSMISSION TOWER (COMMERCIAL) A transmission tower that either (1) serves an individual user and is not available to the general public; (2) is privately owned and operated for the purpose of leasing tower space to others; and/or (3) is a single-purpose facility and not part of a cellular network. 6. SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA A parabolic or dish-shaped antenna designed to receive television broadcasts relayed by signals from communications satellites. 7. WIRELESS COMMUNICATION Any personal wireless services as defined by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and licensed by the Federal Communications Commission, including, but not limited to, the types commonly known as cellular, personal communications services, specialized mobile radio, enhanced specialized mobile radio, paging, ground based repeaters for satellite radio services, microcell antennae and similar systems, which exist now or may be developed in the future and exhibit technological characteristics similar to them. 8. WIRELESS FACILITY Any component of the wireless communication installation including any towers, antennas, antenna array, and any structure or device used to contain ancillary equipment for a wireless facility. 3.5.7. Temporary Uses 1. GARAGE or YARD SALES The sale by a resident, conducted on the premises of his or her dwelling, of personal property belonging to the occupant of such dwelling. [See §6.9 Garage or Yard Sales.] 2. SEASONAL SALES Unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance, the seasonal sale of farm produce, firewood, Christmas trees and similar items. The use of structures or buildings in conjunction with said activity is temporary, as specified by the City and subject to the City's conditions at the time a business license is issued. This term shall not be confused with OPEN AIR MARKET, defined in this Ordinance. §3.6. Abbreviations used in this Ordinance 3.6.1. ac – Acre(s) 3.6.2. ADEM – Alabama Department of Environmental Management 3.6.3. bldg. – Building 3.6.4. br – Bedroom 3.6.5. DU – Dwelling Unit 3.6.6. EQ – equal 3.6.7. FCC – Federal Communications Commission 3.6.8. ft – foot or feet 3.6.9. GFA – Gross Floor Area 3.6.10. lf – linear feet 3.6.11. max. – maximum 3.6.12. min. – minimum 3.6.13. na – not applicable 3.6.14. oc – on center 3.6.15. Pkwy. – parkway 3.6.16. PL – Property line or Lot Line 3.6.17. PUD – Planned Unit Development 3.6.18. ROW – Right-of-way 3.6.19. sf – square feet 3.6.20. U.S. – United States  Article 3 DEFINITIONS 33   3.6.21. ZBA – Zoning Board of Adjustment 3.6.22. % - percent 3.6.23. § - Section, Subsection, Paragraph or Item within this Ordinance or other regulations, as specified  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 34   Article 4 GENERAL REGULATIONS  The following general regulations pertain to the administration, enforcement of, and compliance with this Ordinance. §4.1. Application of this Ordinance No structure shall be constructed, erected, placed, maintained and no land use commenced or continued in the City except as specifically or by necessary implication, is authorized by the City. §4.2. Except as Otherwise Provided for in this Ordinance 4.2.1. No land may be used except for a purpose permitted in the district in which it is located. 4.2.2. No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered, nor shall any building be used except for a use permitted in the district in which the building is located. 4.2.3. No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with the area and height limits of the district in which the building is located. 4.2.4. The minimum building line, number of parking spaces, open spaces, including lot area per family, required by this Ordinance for each and every building existing at the time of passage of this Ordinance or for any building hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as a required building or open space for any other building, nor shall any lot area be reduced below the requirements of this Ordinance. 4.2.5. Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one principal building and one principal use on one lot except as otherwise permitted for non-residential uses, multi- family complexes and condominium developments. Except as specifically permitted for accessory dwellings, Accessory structures shall not include living quarters; neither will sanitary facilities be permitted in accessory structures without the approval of the Council. 4.2.6. Every building or structure hereafter constructed in the City shall conform with all applicable provisions of the American National Standard for Buildings and Facilities for Physically Disabled and or Handicapped, ANSI A117. [See the City’s adopted building code.] Note: Certain types of buildings are exempt from these requirements. 4.2.7. In no case shall basements of dwellings, residences or buildings be used as temporary living space prior to the release of a Certificate of Occupancy for the structure. §4.3. Reduction in Lot Area Prohibited No lot shall be reduced in area so that yards and other open spaces total less than the minimum area required under this Ordinance. [See §4.6.2]  §4.4. Joint Occupancy Except as specifically provided for mixed-use developments, live-work buildings and home occupations, no structure shall be erected, structurally altered for or used as a single family or two family dwelling simultaneously with any other use. §4.5. Public Utilities Utility structures including, but not limited to poles, wires, cross-arms, transformers attached to poles, guy wires, insulators, conduits and other facilities necessary for the transmission or distribution of electric power or to provide telephone or telegraph service and pipe lines, vents, valves, hydrants, regulators, meters and other facilities necessary for the transmission or distribution of gas, oil, water or other utilities may be constructed, erected, repaired, maintained or replaced within any district of the City. This is not to be construed to include the erection or construction of buildings. [See district regulations for public utility facilities and services]  §4.6. Non-conformities 4.6.1. Within the districts established by this Ordinance or amendments that may be later adopted, there exists lots, structures, uses of land and structures and characteristics of use which, were lawful before the Ordinance was passed or amended but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this Ordinance or future amendment. It is the intent of this  Article 4 GENERAL REGULATIONS 35   Ordinance to permit these non-conformities to continue until they are removed but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this Ordinance that non-conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, nor used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the applicable district. 4.6.2. Non-conforming Lots of Record. Where a lot of record existed at the time of the effective date of this Ordinance having less area or width than herein required for the applicable district, the following shall apply: 1. Said lot may nonetheless be used as a building site provided the yard space and other requirements conform as closely as possible with the requirements of the applicable district, in the opinion of the ZBA. 2. However, this provision shall not apply when two or more lots exist together, with contiguous frontage in single ownership at the time of passage of this Ordinance or any time thereafter. Such land shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this Ordinance and shall not be used or sold in a manner which creates lot area or width below the requirements stated in this Ordinance. 4.6.3. Non-conforming Improvements. 1. For the purposes of this Subsection, the term “non-conforming improvements” shall mean any physical improvements, including drainage improvements, driveways, landscaping, lighting and parking areas, but not including buildings, structures or signs, legally established prior to the effective date of this Ordinance or subsequent amendment thereto, but which does not fully comply with the applicable regulations for such improvements in this Ordinance. 2. Non-conforming improvements shall be brought into conformance with the applicable regulations for such uses in this Ordinance prior to occupancy by a new, more intensive use; expansion of an existing use by more than twenty-five (25) percent GFA; or prior to occupancy following a period of vacancy of two (2) years or longer. The ZBA may modify this requirement where it finds that the fully required improvements may not practicably be provided due to inadequate area on a developed lot. 3. Improvements, restoration, renovations, expansions, or changes in use in the B-3 Downtown District require compliance with §5.15.2 3. Building Facades. 4.6.4. Continuance. A lawful non-conforming use existing at the effective date of this Ordinance may be continued, except as hereafter provided although such use does not conform with the provisions of this Ordinance subject to the conditions outlined in §4.6.1 and §4.6.2. 4.6.5. Restoration to Safe Condition. Nothing in this Ordinance shall prevent the restoration of any building or structure to a safe or sanitary condition when required by the proper authorities. 4.6.6. Restoration after Damages. No non-conforming building or structure which has been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than fifty (50) percent of its current replacement value at the time of such damage shall be rebuilt or restored except in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. If a non-conforming building is damaged less than fifty (50) percent of its current replacement value, it may be rebuilt or restored and used as before the damage, provided that such rebuilding or restoration is completed within twelve (12) months of the date of such damage. 4.6.7. Abandonment. A non-conforming use, which has been discontinued for a continuous period of one (1) year, shall not be re- established; and any future use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. 4.6.8. Annexed Property. See §5.19 MR Municipal Reserve District for annexation procedures. 4.6.9. Change in Use. A non-conforming use shall not be changed to another non-conforming use. §4.7. Abandoned Right-of-way Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated or abandoned by official action of the City the zoning district adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of same and all area included therein shall then be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended district. §4.8. Abatement of Noise, Smoke, Gas, Vibration, Fumes, Dust, Fire and Explosion Hazard or Nuisance The ZBA may require the conduct of any use, conforming or nonconforming use, which results in unreasonable noise, smoke, gas, vibration, fumes, dust, fire, radio interference or explosion hazard or nuisance to surrounding property to be modified or changed to abate such hazard to health, comfort and convenience. The ZBA may direct the Zoning Administrator to issue an abatement order, but such order maybe directed only after a public hearing by the said board, notice of which shall be sent by  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 36   registered mail to the owners and/or operators of the property on which the use is conducted (in addition to due notice by advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation). A hearing to consider issuance of an abatement order shall be held by the ZBA either upon petition signed by any person affected by the hazard or nuisance or upon the initiative of the Board. An abatement order shall be directed by the ZBA only upon reasonable evidence of hazard or nuisance and such order shall clearly specify the date by which the hazard or nuisance shall be abated. §4.9. Structures Conforming to District Regulations but not Other Regulations A structure or building conforming to the use regulations of a district, but not conforming to other provisions of this Ordinance, may be enlarged or altered, provided that such enlargement or alteration conforms with the provisions of this Ordinance. §4.10. Buildings to be Moved Any building or structure which is to be moved to any location within the city limits of the City shall be considered for the purpose of this Ordinance to be a new building under construction; and, as such, it shall conform to all applicable provisions of this Ordinance and the City’s adopted building code. §4.11. Storage of inoperable motor vehicles It shall be unlawful for any person to park, leave or store upon any lot, place or premises within the City any inoperable motor vehicle for a period greater than thirty (30) days, unless such vehicle is in an enclosed building or screened from public view as required in §9.4 Screening and in accordance with the limitations of §6.4 Fences and Walls. For the purpose of this Ordinance, a vehicle shall be deemed inoperable if it cannot be started or driven under its own power. §4.12. General Regulations for Non-Residential Districts The following general regulations shall apply in the O&I, B-1, B-2, B-3, M-1, M-2 and M-3 Districts: 4.12.1. Each Business to be Located in Permanent Building. Except as otherwise permitted in this Article, the main building of a permanent or temporary business shall be a permanent building which has a roof supported by columns or walls, with walls constructed of wood, metal, glass, brick or masonry materials, which completely enclose the main building area. The permanent building and premises shall conform in all respects to the applicable land and building development codes and ordinances of the City. The main building of any permanent or temporary business shall not be a tent, shelter, mobile building or other structure which does not comply with the intent of the applicable district. 4.12.2. No Minimum Lot Area shall be required, although each lot shall be adequate in size to allow for the proposed use, as well as the required parking, buffers (if required), storage and servicing of the building(s). 4.12.3. No Minimum Lot Width shall be required, although it is each lot shall be of sufficient width to allow for the proposed use, along with adequate space for parking, buffers (if required), storage and the servicing of the building(s). 4.12.4. Each structure shall have a service yard adequate for the handling of waste and garbage and the loading and unloading of vehicles. Such service yard(s) shall be paved, have access to a public street or alley, and be located to the side or the rear of the primary structure. 4.12.5. No exterior lighting fixture including lighting for parking areas, walkways, general illumination or any other purposes shall exceed twenty-five (25) ft in height measured from grade level and shall be designed and installed so as to direct the beam of light away from any adjacent residential areas. 4.12.6. High Traffic Corridors. Any commercial building abutting or visible from a high traffic corridor shall meet the following requirements in addition to other provisions of this Ordinance: 1. Buildings must be constructed so that, at a minimum, the front of the building (and side(s) of the building if abutting an intersection of two high traffic corridors) is constructed of a masonry material. Acceptable materials include brick, stone, dryvit, or decorative block. 2. Parking lots shall include curbing and/or gutters and be landscaped in accordance with §9.3 Landscaping for Vehicular Area in High Traffic Corridors. Article 4 GENERAL REGULATIONS 37   §4.13. Intersection Visibility No building, fence, wall, sign, or other structure nor any hedge or other visual obstruction be placed or maintained so as to conflict with intersection sight distances as determined by the City Engineer in accordance with the Public Works Manual. This shall apply to any thoroughfare, driveway or alley providing access to a thoroughfare. §4.14. Temporary Living Quarters, Recreational Vehicles Recreational Vehicles, tents and similar facilities intended for camping and similar recreational purposes, but that are not considered “structures” as defined in this Ordinance, shall not be used as dwellings in any district but may be used for lodging within recreational vehicle campgrounds, where permitted. However, the use of recreational vehicles for temporary living quarters may be approved by the Zoning Administrator following natural disasters, fires and similar emergency circumstances. Such administrative approval shall be limited to seven (7) days consecutive or non-consecutive in a twelve (12) month period. An extension may be approved only by the ZBA. Any such extension shall expire as determined by the ZBA based on the particular findings related to the request. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 38   This page intentionally left blank. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 39   Article 5 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS  In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this Zoning Ordinance, the City of Calera is hereby divided into the following districts. The location, boundaries and area of which are and shall be, as shown and depicted upon the official zoning map. The said districts are to be as follows:  E-1 Single family Residential (Estate) District R-1 Single family Residential District R-2 Single family Residential District R-2-A Single family Residential District R-3 Single family (Affordable Housing) Residential District  R-3-A Manufactured Home Subdivision District R-3-B Manufactured Home Park District R-4 Multi-family Residential District RG Garden Home Residential District RT Townhouse Residential District A-1 Agricultural District O&I Office and Institutional District B-1 Neighborhood Commercial District B-2 General Business District B-3 Downtown District M-1 Light Industrial District M-2 Heavy Industrial District M-3 Heavy Industrial District MR Municipal Reserve District MXD Mixed-Use District  Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall be decided by the ZBA, as outlined in §2.5 Interpretation of District Boundaries. The zoning district regulations are supplemented by the following Articles and provisions of this Ordinance:  1. Administration and Review Procedures, Art. 2 2. Definitions, Art. 3 3. General Regulations, Art. 4 4. Supplemental Regulations, Art. 6 5. Use Specific Regulations, Art. 7 6. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Art. 8 7. Landscaping Regulations, Art. 9 8. Buffer Requirements, §9.2 Buffers. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 40   Note: As of the date of the adoption of this zoning ordinance, any proposed subdivision of land that has already obtained any of the following shall be "grandfathered" and governed by the City's zoning ordinance in effect as of the latest to occur of the following: (1) preliminary plat approval; (2) final plat approval; (3) issuance of a building permit; and/or (4) any extension or renewal of the foregoing. Provided, however, this "grandfather" exemption shall lapse and expire as to an exempt unimproved property if a permit for the construction of improvements on that property, or some portion thereof, has not been requested from the City for a continuous period of 12 months from the later of the date of approval of the latest of the foregoing events, or from the date of expiration of the last building permit obtained on that property, or some portion thereof. Additionally, if any lot shown in a preliminary or final plat is ever altered, or if unplatted land referenced in such a plat is hereafter proposed to be subdivided, such new lots will not have the foregoing "grandfather" exemption. Instead, such new lots shall conform to the provisions of the zoning ordinance then in effect. *Adoption Date: October 18, 2021  The District regulations are as described following:  §5.1. E-1 Single family Residential (Estate) District Intent. To provide areas suitable for detached single family residences on large lots, along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. 5.1.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1 and the provisions herein: 1. Those institutional uses listed as permitted or as Special Exception Uses shall be limited to low intensity as provided in §3.5.3 unless approved by the Commission as a Conditional Use. 5.1.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: 1. Minimum Lot Area: One (1) acre 2. Minimum Lot Width: 150 ft 3. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: Seventy-five (75) ft, or if fronting on undedicated road: Sixty (60) ft from the centerline b. Rear: Seventy-five (75) ft c. Side: Twenty-five (25) ft 4. Maximum Height: Thirty-five (35) ft or 2-1/2 stories 5. Minimum Livable Floor Area: a. One story: 2,400 sf b. More than one story: 1,800 sf on first floor, 2800 sf total 6. Corner Lot setbacks shall be the same on both streets. §5.2. R-1 Single family Residential District Intent. To provide areas for medium density detached single family residences, along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. 5.2.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1 and the provisions herein: 1. Those institutional uses listed as permitted or as Special Exception Uses shall be limited to low intensity as provided in §3.5.3 unless approved by the Commission as a Conditional Use. 5.2.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and  Article 5 Establishment of Districts 41   dimensional regulations shall be required: 1. Minimum Lot Area: 20,000 sf 2. Minimum Lot Width: 100 ft 3. Minimum Yard Size: a. Front: Fifty (50) ft, or if fronting on undedicated road: Sixty (60) ft from the centerline b. Rear: Fifty (50) ft c. Side: Fifteen (15) ft d. Alternative setback provisions for new subdivisions: When required parking is provided within a structure to the rear of the dwelling, the front yard setback may be reduced by five (5) ft. In such cases and when front-loaded, a minimum building spacing of twenty (20) ft shall be required instead of a side yard setback. See figure below. Figure 5-2: Alternative Side Setback/Minimum Building Spacing 4. Maximum Height: Thirty-five (35) ft or 2-1/2 stories 5. Minimum Floor Area: a. One story: 2,000 sf b. More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2400 sf total 6. Corner Lot setbacks shall be the same on both streets. §5.3. R-2 Single family Residential District Intent. To provide areas for medium density single family residences along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. 5.3.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1 and the provisions herein: 1. Those institutional uses listed as permitted or as Special Exception Uses shall be limited to low intensity as provided in §3.5.3 unless approved by the Commission as a Conditional Use. 5.3.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: 1. Minimum Lot Area: 15,000 sf 2. Minimum Lot Width: Seventy-five (75) ft 3. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: Thirty-five (35) ft b. Secondary front (for Standard Corner Lots): twenty (20) ft c. Rear: Forty (40) ft d. Side: Ten (10) ft e. Alternative setback provisions for new subdivisions: When required parking is provided within a structure to the rear of the dwelling, the front yard setback may be reduced by five (5) ft. In such cases and when front-loaded, a minimum building spacing of twenty (20) ft shall be required instead of a side yard setback. See Figure 5-2. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 42   4. Maximum Height: Thirty-five (35) ft or 2-1/2 stories 5. Minimum Floor Area: a. One story: 1,600 ft b. More than one story: 1,200 sf on first floor, 2,200 sf total 6. For non-standard Corner Lots, front yard setbacks shall be the same on both streets. §5.4. R-2-A Single family Residential District Intent. To provide areas suitable for medium density detached single family residences, along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. 5.4.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1 and the provisions herein: 1. Those institutional uses listed as permitted or as Special Exception Uses shall be limited to low intensity as provided in §3.5.3 unless approved by the Commission as a Conditional Use. 5.4.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: 1. Minimum Lot Area: 10,000 sf 2. Minimum Lot Width: Seventy-five (75) ft 3. Minimum Yard Setback: a. Front: Thirty-five (35) ft b. Secondary front (for Standard Corner Lots): twenty (20) ft c. Rear: Thirty (30) ft d. Side: Ten (10) ft e. Alternative setback provisions for new subdivisions: When required parking is provided within a structure to the rear of the dwelling, the front yard setback may be reduced by five (5) ft. In such cases and when front-loaded, a minimum building spacing of twenty (20) ft shall be required instead of a side yard setback. See Figure 5-2. 4. Maximum Height: Thirty-five (35) ft or 2-1/2 stories 5. Minimum Livable Floor Area: a. One story: 1,500 sf b. More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 sf total 6. For non-standard Corner Lots, front yard setbacks shall be the same on both streets. §5.5. R-3 Single family (Affordable Housing) Residential District Intent. To provide areas suitable for medium density detached single family residences, along with manufactured homes, duplexes and selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. 5.5.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1 and the provisions herein: 1. Those institutional uses listed as permitted or as Special Exception Uses shall be limited to low intensity as provided in §3.5.3 unless approved by the Commission as a Conditional Use. 5.5.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: 1. Minimum Lot Area: 10,000 sf 2. Minimum Lot Width: Seventy (70) ft 3. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: Thirty (30) ft  Article 5 Establishment of Districts 43   b. Secondary front (for Standard Corner Lots only): 20 ft c. Rear: Thirty (30) ft d. Side: Ten (10) ft e. Alternative setback provisions for new subdivisions: When required parking is provided within a structure to the rear of the dwelling, the front yard setback may be reduced by five (5) ft. In such cases and when front-loaded, a minimum building spacing of twenty (20) ft shall be required instead of a side yard setback. See Figure 5-2. 4. Maximum Height: Thirty-five (35) ft or 2 1/2 stories 5. Minimum Floor Area: a. One story: 1,500 sf b. More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 sf total 6. For non-standard Corner Lots, front yard setbacks shall be the same on both streets. §5.6. R-3A Manufactured Home Subdivision District Intent. To provide areas for Manufactured Home Subdivision Development, free from other uses which are incompatible with the character and intent of this district. 5.6.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1. 5.6.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: 1. Minimum Lot Area: 7,500 sf [15,000 sf if septic tanks and field lines are required] 2. Minimum Lot Width: Sixty (60) ft 3. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: Thirty-five (35) ft b. Rear: Thirty-five (35) ft c. Side: Ten (10) ft d. Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be the same on both streets 5.6.3. Manufactured Home Standards 1. Only Class A Manufactured Homes, as defined in §3.5 Uses Defined, shall be permitted. 2. Each manufactured home shall be provided with two (2) off-street parking spaces, with all streets and parking spaces in complete compliance with the Calera Subdivision Regulations relative to street standards. 3. All manufactured homes shall be installed according to all requirements of the City Building Code and shall be completely skirted within thirty (30) days from the date the home is moved on a lot with weather resistance material. Skirting shall be adequately vented. 5.6.4. Procedure for Plat Approval. Layout plans for all manufactured home subdivisions shall be prepared by a Registered Engineer and submitted to the Commission for review and approval of construction. This site plan shall include the following: 1. Area and dimensions of the site 2. Number of lots, dimensions and layout of all lots 3. Location, size and layout of all utilities and streets 4. Assessment of drainage conditions by a Registered Engineer, including all proposed measures needed to rectify problems, where they exist 5. Street plan, including all off-street parking 6. Assessment of traffic conditions, including all proposed measures needed to rectify problems where they exist 7. Location and type of all street lighting 8. Location of all fire hydrants  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 44   5.6.5. Additional Regulations 1. All manufactured homes shall be individually owned. 2. The subdivisions shall be in accordance with all applicable Sections of the City's Subdivision Regulations. 3. All access points shall be as approved by the City Engineer in accord with the Public Works Manual. 4. The subdivision shall be served with water, sanitary facilities, and adequate drainage facilities and such plans shall be submitted to both the City Engineer and the Commission for review and approval. §5.7. R-3-B Manufactured Home Park District Intent. To provide areas for Manufactured Home Parks, free from other uses which are incompatible with the character and intent of this district. 5.7.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1 and the provisions herein: 1. The following uses shall be permitted: Class A and B Manufactured Homes, management office, manager's residence, service facilities such as laundromats, garbage pick-up areas, accessory structures and buildings, outdoor storage yards, recreational areas and facilities along with retail convenience sales intended to serve the residents of the park and their guests. 5.7.2. Site Standards. A site plan shall be prepared and submitted for each manufactured home park, and: 1. The minimum site area for the manufactured home park shall be twenty (20) contiguous acres of land with access to a public street of not less than fifty (50) ft in width. 2. Each manufactured home space shall have a minimum of 7,500 sf and have a minimum width of sixty (60) ft at the front lot line. 3. Each manufactured home space shall be set back a minimum of thirty-five (35) ft from any park boundary line and ten (10) ft from any other lot line. 4. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front Yard: Thirty-five (35) ft, or if fronting on undedicated road: sixty (60) ft from the centerline b. Rear Yard: Thirty-five (35) ft c. Side Yard: Twenty (20) ft 5. The maximum density shall be six (6) manufactured homes per gross tract acre, if not served by public water and sewer. A lower density may be required by the County Health Department. 6. Location and type of street lighting as recommended by the Alabama Power Company or comparable engineering data. 7. Each manufactured home park shall be provided with a park and recreational area having a minimum area of 150 sf per manufactured home space. Such areas shall be consolidated into usable areas. 8. Location and type of fire hydrants to be coordinated with City of Calera Fire Department. 9. Each manufactured home park shall be provided with a park and recreational area having a minimum area of 100 sf per manufactured home space. Such areas shall be consolidated into usable areas. 5.7.3. Installation. All manufactured homes shall be installed according to all requirements of the City Building Code; and, be completely skirted within thirty (30) days from the date the home is moved into the park with a weather resistant material. Skirting shall be adequately vented. 5.7.4. Storage Facilities, Accessory Uses and Structures. A maximum of 100 sf of storage area shall be provided for each space. Alternatively, park management may provide common storage lockers at an equivalent capacity. Permitted accessory structures on manufactured home spaces shall include all accessory structures permitted on the lots of single family residences, except for private swimming pools and satellite dish antennas. Such accessory uses shall not be permitted closer than five (5) ft from the rear and side boundaries of each space. Carports may be permitted in the front yard but shall not be permitted within five (5) ft of the front building line. However, such shall not be permitted within five (5) ft of the rear and side boundaries of each space and twenty-five (25) ft from front lot lines; and, in the case of a corner lot, twenty-five (25) ft from the lot lines adjacent to a street. 5.7.5. Off-street parking and Streets. Two-way private, paved streets (maintained by the park management) shall be installed to  Article 5 Establishment of Districts 45   furnish convenient access to all manufactured home spaces within the park and such streets shall be in complete conformance with City street standards. No manufactured (mobile) home shall have its own access into a public street. Dead-end streets shall have turn-arounds in conformance with City street standards and each manufactured home shall have two (2) paved, off- street parking spaces. In addition, the location of all driveways shall be shown on the required site plan and approved by the Commission. 5.7.6. Service Facilities. Common recreational facilities and laundromats shall be provided for the use of park residents and their guests only. Garbage collection and disposal shall be the responsibility of park management and common garbage pick-up points shall be provided and screened as required in §9.4 Screening. 1. Required park and recreational areas shall be provided in one or more centrally located, usable areas easily accessible to all park residents. Such space shall be maintained in a usable and sanitary condition. 2. Every Manufactured Home Park of ten (10) or more spaces shall be provided with above- or below-grade storm shelters, which shall: a. have a minimum floor area of ten (10) sf for each Manufactured Home space. b. Be designed by a licensed structural engineer or architect and built in accord with plans as approved by the Building Official. c. Be designed and constructed to meet the minimum lighting, ventilation and exiting requirements of the Building Code, Mechanical Code, Plumbing Code and Electrical Code, where applicable. d. Be designed and constructed to meet all applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). e. Be located no farther than 1,320 linear ft from the furthest Manufactured Home space on-site. 5.7.7. Buffer Requirements. See §9.2 Buffers. 5.7.8. Signs. Internal signs shall be in conformance with park management policy. If no such policy exists, the same signs permitted in other single family districts shall apply. 5.7.9. Landscaping. All required yards shall be permanently landscaped and maintained with ground cover, trees and shrubs. 5.7.10. Deck/Patio. Each Manufactured Home should be provided with a deck or patio of at least 200 sf. 5.7.11. Ownership. All Manufactured Homes are to be leased or rented only and are not to be sold individually. 5.7.12. Fences. Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions of §6.4 Fences and Walls. §5.8. R-4 Multi-family Residential District Intent. To provide areas for multi-family residential development along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. 5.8.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1 and the provisions herein: 1. Those institutional uses listed as permitted or as Special Exception Uses shall be limited to low intensity as provided in §3.5.3 unless approved by the Commission as a Conditional Use. 5.8.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required (see also §7.15 Multi-family Dwellings for requirements applicable to all Multiple- family development types): 1. Maximum Building Height: three (3) stories 2. Regulations for Multi-family Uses, Assisted and Independent Living Facilities: a. Minimum Lot Area: None specified, although the maximum density shall be ten (10) units per acre b. Minimum Lot Width: 200 ft c. Corner Lots shall have the same setbacks on both streets d. Minimum Livable Floor Area: (1) Two-family dwelling – same as the R-2 District (2) Multiple dwellings – 800 sf per dwelling (3) Independent living facility – 500 sf per dwelling unit (4) No minimum floor area for assisted living units  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 46   e. All principal buildings shall be set back from parking areas and driveways by not less than twenty (20) ft. f. Minimum Open Space shall be as required per §7.7 for Assisted Living Facilities and per §7.15 for Multi-Family developments and Independent Living Facilities. 3. For multi-family buildings (one building per lot): a. Yard Setbacks: (1) Front: Fifteen (15) ft minimum, thirty-five (35) ft maximum (2) Rear: Three (3) ft minimum, thirty (30) ft maximum (3) Side: None, except as required by the Building and Fire Code. b. Off-street parking shall be to the side or the rear. 4. For multi-family complexes, assisted living facilities and independent living facilities: a. No building shall be nearer a dedicated street than thirty-five (35) ft. b. All multiple dwelling buildings shall be separated by not less than 20 ft, unless a more restrictive separation is required to comply with the International Building Code, as amended, and the International Fire Code. c. Sidewalks, of at least five (5) ft, shall be provided throughout the development for interconnectivity of buildings, parking areas and common areas. 5. Requirements for Other Uses. a. Public Buildings. See §7.16. b. Places of Assembly, Group Care Homes, Boarding Houses and Duplexes shall comply with the following setbacks: (1) Front: Twenty-five (25) ft (2) Rear: Thirty (30) ft (3) Side: Ten (10) ft 5.8.3. Additional Regulations 1. For multi-family complexes and any other permitted use with multiple buildings, A Site Development Plan is required, which provides for: a. Convenient vehicular servicing of the buildings, satisfactory circulation of traffic in the parking areas, and no undue interference with through traffic in gaining ingress and egress from the proposed site b. A preliminary plan or engineering report providing for the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewerage and water supply prepared by a Registered Engineer c. Suitable entrance and exit points adjoining public streets serving the proposed development, which shall be properly illuminated to reduce traffic safety hazards d. Garbage and refuse collection facilities shall be the responsibility of apartment management and shall be screened as required in §9.4 Screening. §5.9. RG Residential Garden Home District Intent. To provide areas suitable for the development of residential garden homes along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are integrally related to residential neighborhoods. 5.9.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1. 5.9.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: 1. Minimum Lot Area: 7,000 sf 2. Minimum Lot Width: seventy (70) ft 3. Yard Setbacks: a. Front: Twenty-five (25) ft minimum, thirty-five (35) ft maximum b. Rear: Twenty-five (25) ft  Article 5 Establishment of Districts 47   c. Side: Ten (10) ft one side, twenty (20) ft to accommodate a driveway d. Corner Lots shall have the same setbacks on both streets. e. No building in an RG District shall be located less than twenty-five (25) ft from any boundary of the RG Development abutting single family residential zoning districts. f. Alternative setback provisions for new subdivisions: When required parking is provided within a detached structure to the rear of the dwelling, the front yard setback may be reduced by five (5) ft. 4. Maximum Height: Thirty-five (35) ft or 2-1/2 stories 5. Minimum Floor Area: a. One story: 1,500 sf b. More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 total 6. Building Facades. a. All buildings shall maintain a public entrance, accessible by public sidewalk along the street on which the building fronts. Additional entries are permitted, as necessary. b. Building facades must use durable materials. Durable materials include brick, stucco (EIFS is not permitted within 36 inches of finished grade), heavy timber, wood, slate, metal, and tile roofing. Vinyl and cementitious siding may be used as an accent material and shall be limited to thirty percent (30%) of all exterior walls. The percent calculation shall be based on the total area of all exterior walls, excluding openings for windows and doors. 5.9.3. Parking Standards. 1. Parking shall be located to the side or rear of the unit. Vehicle should use an alley for access where available. 2. There shall be four (4) paved, off-street parking spaces for each unit. Spaces in garages do not count toward this requirement. 5.9.4. Open Space Requirements. 1. The following uses are permitted: a. Environmental Corridors/ greenways b. Pocket parks c. Neighborhood parks d. Playgrounds e. Storm water retention/detention facilities (where incorporated into one of the above) 2. No less than fifteen (15) percent of the site area shall be improved and maintained as Common Open Space for the recreational use of tenants. At least twenty-five (25) percent of the Open Space shall be dedicated, designed, and improved as a Common Open Space for the recreational use of residents. Such space shall be no less than forty (40) ft in width along its narrowest dimension. Shade must be provided for 1/3 of the area at minimum. 3. Open space must be built when the final plat is approved. Amenities provided within the open space, such as benches, planters, art, and water features will be maintained by the owner for the life of the project in accordance with §6.11 Ownership and Management of Common Open Spaces and Facilities. 4. Common open space and other permitted uses may require additional parking, beyond the required number of parking spaces per unit as determined by the City Engineer. 5. The Common Open Space shall not include steep grades, areas with poor drainage or other constraints to its recreational use. 5.9.5. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) 1. No fence shall be permitted forward of the front corner of the house. 2. No Garden Home site shall share the same block frontage with detached single-family dwellings or duplexes unless separated by an alley, watercourse or buffer. 3. All utilities shall be placed underground or in an alley for rear-loaded lots. 4. All lots shall be served by water and sewer. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 48   5. Customary accessory buildings or structures, one (1) per parcel or lot, shall not exceed 200 sf. That portion of a detached accessory structure devoted to required parking shall not be counted against this allowance. §5.10. RT Residential Townhouse District Intent. To provide areas suitable for Townhouse Residential Dwellings 5.10.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.1. 5.10.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: 1. Maximum Density: Eight (8) units per gross tract acre, including common area 2. Minimum Lot Width: Twenty-four (24) ft for townhouses; otherwise the minimum lot width shall be as necessary to provide fire separation in accordance with the Fire/Building Code 3. Yard Setbacks: a. Front: Townhouses shall be set back no less than ten (10) ft from the front lot line. Where the front yard is less than fifteen (15) ft, the ground floor of the unit shall be no less than two (2) ft above grade level at the sidewalk. If front- loaded, units shall be setback at last twenty-five (25) ft, but no more than thirty-five (35) ft from the front lot line. b. Rear: For dwellings, the minimum rear yard setback shall be twenty-five (25) ft. Where an alley is present at the rear of the lot, the minimum rear yard setback for accessory buildings shall be twelve (12) ft from the alley centerline. c. Side: Zero (0) ft for interior units and ten (10) ft for end units. d. Townhouse dwellings shall be located at least fifteen (15) ft from the RT District boundary as depicted on the site development plan; twenty (20) ft from an E-1, R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-G District. e. Corner Lots: Shall have the same setbacks on both streets. 4. Maximum Height: Thirty-five (35) ft or 2 1/2 stories 5. Minimum Livable Floor Area: a. One (1) story Townhouse: 1,500 sf b. More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 sf total 6. Building Groups. No less than three (3) nor more than eight (8) Townhouses shall be located within a continuous building group and no interconnection or overlapping between individual dwelling units shall be permitted. 7. Building Facades. Where in conflict, these standards superseded those of Article 6 Supplemental Regulations. a. Eave Overhangs: Cornices or eaves may extend into adjoining property when allowed by properly executed and recorded covenants between property owners. All such cornices and eaves shall be fire-proof. b. The front façade of each dwelling unit shall have a covered porch, covered stoop, or balcony over the main entrance. (1) Finish floor elevation: eighteen (18) inches above grade at front façade (2) Porch depth: six (6) ft of clear space, exclusive of railings, pillars, columns, or other porch features. (3) Stoop depth: three (3) ft to six (6) ft deep (4) Covered porches and stoops may encroach into the front yard up to six (6) ft. c. All buildings shall maintain a public entrance, accessible by public sidewalk, along the street on which the building fronts. Additional entries are permitted, as necessary. d. Building facades must use durable materials. Durable materials include brick, stucco (EIFS is not permitted within 36 inches of finished grade), heavy timber, wood, slate, metal, and tile roofing. Vinyl and cementitious siding may be used as an accent material and shall be limited to thirty percent (30%) of all exterior walls. The percent calculation shall be based on the total area of all exterior walls, excluding openings for windows and doors. 5.10.3. Parking Standards. 1. Spaces required. A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be provided each unit. In addition, visitor parking spaces must be provided in a paved area within the development site at a rate of 50% of the total number of units in the development. 2. Parking Location: Individual parking may be provided on the lot, or in a commonly owned and maintained parking area  Article 5 Establishment of Districts 49   accessed at the rear of the units by an alley or common drive; provided that the parking area is easily accessible and of a reasonable distance from the townhouse that it serves. a. For front setbacks less than twenty-five (25) ft, all required parking shall be accessed at the rear of the units by an alley or common drive. b. The minimum depth of off-street parking spaces shall be measured from back of sidewalk, if front-loaded. No parking shall be permitted on a driveway less than twenty-two (22) ft in depth from the sidewalk to the building line. Any lots for semi-detached or detached dwellings less than sixty (60) ft wide shall be rear-loaded. 3. Garages in the RT Residential Townhouse District: a. A detached garage may be placed at the rear of the lot. b. A front-accessed garage attached to a front-loaded townhouse shall be recessed a minimum of two (2) ft behind the front façade (not including porches, stoops, balconies, and other architectural treatments). c. The maximum allowable driveway width facing the street is eighteen (18) ft per dwelling unit. d. If located in the front, two adjacent garages shall share one driveway when individual parking would otherwise be separated by less than twenty (20) feet. When a driveway serves more than one lot, an access and maintenance easement to benefit each lot shall be provided. e. If an alley adjoins a lot, then garage access from the street is prohibited. 5.10.4. Open Space Requirements. 1. The following uses are permitted: a. Environmental Corridors/ greenways b. Pocket Parks c. Neighborhood parks d. Playgrounds e. Stormwater retention/detention facilities (where incorporated into one of the above) 2. For developments containing more than 10 units, a minimum of fifteen (15) percent of the site area shall be improved and maintained as Common Open Space for the recreational use of tenants. At least twenty-five (25) percent of the Open Space shall be dedicated, designed, and improved as a Common Open Space for the recreational use of residents. Such space shall be no less than forty (40) ft in width along its narrowest dimension. Shade must be provided for 1/3 of the area at minimum. 3. Open space must be built when the final plat is approved. Amenities provided within the open space, such as benches, planters, art and water features will be maintained by the owner for the life of the project in accordance with §6.11 Ownership and Management of Common Open Spaces and Facilities. 4. Common open space and other permitted uses may require additional parking, beyond the required number of parking spaces per unit as determined by the City Engineer. 5. The Common Open Space shall not include steep grades, areas with poor drainage or other constraints to its recreational use. 5.10.5. A Site Development Plan is required which provides for: 1. Convenient vehicular servicing of the buildings, satisfactory circulation of traffic in the parking areas, and no undue interference with through traffic in gaining ingress and egress to the proposed site. 2. A preliminary plan or engineering report providing for the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewerage and water supply, prepared by a Registered Engineer. 3. Suitable entrance and exit points adjoining public streets serving the proposed development, which shall be properly illuminated to reduce traffic hazards. 5.10.6. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) 1. No Townhouse site shall share the same block frontage with detached single-family dwellings or duplexes unless separated by an alley, watercourse or buffer. 2. Building groups shall be planned so that all units on the same block frontage are either front-loaded or rear-loaded. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 50   3. Adequate provisions for emergency access from the rear of lots may be required by the Fire Marshal for lots less than sixty (60) ft in width. 4. A sidewalk of at least thirty-six (36) inches in width shall be provided connecting from the front entrance of each unit to the rear of the building group for unobstructed access to the rear of each unit. Where units are set back no more than twenty (20) ft from the sidewalk along the street, such sidewalk may be used as a part of this required access. Where such access must cross lots, an easement of five (5) ft in width shall be provided. 5. An easement appurtenant across lots shall be provided where a property owner must cross an adjoining property to reach his or her own property with gates provided if fence extends to the property line. 6. The applicant shall provide for and establish an organization or other legal entity for the ownership and maintenance of any commonly owned areas designated as such on the site development plan including front yards and common areas including alleys, common parking areas, fencing, open space, landscaping, amenities and buffers (see also §6.11 Private Swimming Pools and Tennis Courts). Such organization shall be created by covenants running with the land and such deed restrictions or covenants shall be duly recorded in the Office of the Probate Judge. 7. No fences shall be allowed in the front yard for front-loaded units. 8. Private swimming pools are prohibited on individual townhouse lots in the RT District but may be placed in a common area. 9. All utilities shall be placed underground or in an alley for rear-loaded lots. 10. All lots shall be served by water and sewer. 11. Garbage and refuse collection and disposal shall be the responsibility of management and such collection facilities shall be screened as required in §9.4 Screening. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 51   Table 5.1 Permitted Uses for Residential Districts E-1 R-1 R-2 R-2A R-3 R-3A R-3B R-4 RG RT Agricultural Uses    Hobby Farms, §7.2 Y   Residential Uses    Accessory Dwellings, §7.17 SE SE SE SE SE  Boarding Houses  Y Y  Duplexes  Y Y  Conservation Subdivisions, §7.19 Y Y Y Y Y  Cottage Subdivisions, §7.20 Y Y  Family Day Care Homes, §7.21 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y SE SE Garden Homes   Y Group Care Home (4 or less residents) Y Y Y  Group Care Home (10 or less residents) SE SE Y  Home Occupations, §7.9 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Independent Living Facilities, §7.15  Y  Manufactured, Modular Homes  Y Y  Manufactured Home Parks  Y  Manufactured Home Subdivisions  Y  Multi-family Dwellings, §7.15  Y Y Y  Single-family Dwellings, Detached Y Y Y Y Y  Y Single-family Dwellings, Semi-detached   Y Townhouses   Y  Residential Accessory Uses    Customary Accessory Structures, §6.6 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Garage Sales, §6.9 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Private Swimming Pools, §6.10 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Private Tennis Courts, §6.10 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Satellite Dish Antennas, §6.7 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Institutional Uses    Assisted Living Facilities, §7.7  SE  Cemeteries, §7.8 Y   Country Clubs Y Y Y   Group Care Home (more than 10 residents)  SE  Parks Y Y Y Y Y Y  Places of Assembly SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE Public Buildings, §7.16 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Public Utility Facilities SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE Public Utility Services Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Schools C C C C C C  Commercial Uses    Bed and Breakfasts, §7.18 Y Y  Telecommunications Uses    Wireless Facilities, §7.11 SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE SE Y – The use is permitted by right subject to any limitations of the applicable district. Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted subject to §2.6 Interpretation of Uses and §2.7 Unclassified Uses. SE – Special Exception Use, requires approval by ZBA (see §2.8). May also be subject to district limitations. C – Conditional Use, requires approval by the Commission (see §2.9). May also be subject to district limitations. A use followed by a numeric cross-reference is also subject to the regulations referenced. A blank cell indicates that the use is not permitted. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 52   §5.11. A-1 Agricultural District Intent. This district consists primarily of undeveloped lands where agricultural and related pursuits may occur within the City and where agriculture support centers may serve outlying areas beyond the City. Further, the intent of the A-1 District is to preserve these areas in agriculture, forestry, rural residential and other limited, yet compatible land uses until such time as a higher density development pattern may be desired and City services can be expanded to accommodate this development. 5.11.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.2 and the provisions herein. 1. Those institutional uses listed herein as permitted or as Special Exception Uses shall be limited to medium intensity as provided in §3.5.3 unless approved by the Commission as a Conditional Use. 5.11.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required: 1. Minimum Lot Size: 3 acres 2. Minimum Yard Setback: a. Front: Fifty (50) ft b. Rear: Fifty (50) ft c. Side: Fifteen (15) ft 3. Maximum Height: Thirty-five (35) ft or 2-1/2 stories 4. Minimum Livable Floor Area: a. One story: 1,500 sf b. More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 sf total 5. In the A-1 Agricultural District, no structure housing livestock or fowl of any kind shall be located any closer than 100 ft from any property line of a district other than an A-1 Agricultural District. In any event, no such structure shall be located any closer than 300 ft from the nearest then existing residence other than that of the owner of the property. 6. Regulations for Manufactured Homes. Manufactured homes shall be permitted subject to the following requirements: a. All manufactured homes, as located on the proposed site, shall be at least seventy-five (75) ft from the nearest residential structure, excluding another such home. b. Water and sanitary facilities must be approved by the City, as well as the County Health Department. c. Site Requirements: (1) Minimum Lot Width: 100 ft (2) Minimum Lot Area: 15,000 sf Yard Requirements: (3) Front: Thirty-five (35) ft (4) Undedicated street: Sixty (60) ft from centerline d. Side: Fifteen (15) ft e. Rear: Thirty-five (35) ft f. Parcel and adjacent property, under the same ownership, will allow the following: (1) One (1) home: 15,000 sf (2) Two (2) homes: One (1) acre minimum g. Only two additional homes, three including the principal structure, shall be permitted. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 53   §5.12. O&I Office and Institutional District Intent. To provide areas suitable for office and professional buildings, along with selected institutional and commercial uses which are deemed compatible with the professional office environment. 5.12.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.2. 5.12.2. Area and Dimensional Requirements. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required (see also §4.12 General Regulations for Non-Residential Districts): 1. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: 10 ft if all parking and vehicular areas are located to the side or rear (may be reduced to 0 ft subject to approval of City Engineer, Public Works Director and Inspections Department), otherwise thirty-five (35) ft b. Rear: fifteen (15) ft c. Side: 0 ft and/or as required by the Building and Fire Codes d. Rear and/or side yard setbacks shall be increased to include a Buffer if required by §9.2 Buffers. 2. Maximum Building Height: Forty-five (45) ft or 4 stories 3. Corner Lots: Setbacks shall be set back the same from each street. 5.12.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) 1. A site development plan is required which provides for: a. Convenient vehicular servicing of the buildings, satisfactory circulation of traffic in the parking areas, as well as in adjacent areas and no undue interference with through traffic in gaining ingress and egress from the proposed site. b. A preliminary plan or engineering report providing for the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply pre pared by a Registered Engineer. c. Suitable entrance and exit points adjoining public streets serving the proposed development. d. The location, size, number and character of all exterior signs and lighting. e. The type and location of all buffers to be employed (if required). §5.13. B-1 Neighborhood Commercial District Intent. To establish and preserve areas for those commercial uses which are especially useful in close proximity to residential areas, along with selected institutional uses, while minimizing the possible undesirable impact of such uses on the neighborhoods they serve. 5.13.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.2 and the provisions herein: 1. Gasoline sales shall only be permitted together with convenience store with a GFA of at least 1,000 sf. 5.13.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall apply (see also §4.12 General Regulations for Non-Residential Districts): 1. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: 10 ft if all parking and other vehicular areas are to the side or rear (may be reduced to 0 ft subject to approval of City Engineer, Public Works Director and Inspections Department), otherwise Twenty (20) ft, which shall apply to both frontages of corner lots b. Rear: fifteen (15) ft c. Side: 0 ft and/or as required by the Building and Fire Codes d. Rear and/or side yard setbacks shall be increased to include a Buffer if required by §9.2 Buffers. 2. Maximum Height: thirty-five (35) ft or 2 stories. 3. Maximum Floor Area: a. No commercial use shall exceed 5,000 sf GFA. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 54   b. No multi-tenant development may exceed 15,000 sf of GFA. c. Permitted institutional uses shall be limited to those of Low or Medium Intensity as defined in §3.5.3. 5.13.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) 1. All buildings shall maintain a public entrance, accessible by sidewalk, along the street on which the building fronts. 2. Drive-through facilities shall be located to the side or rear of the building only. 3. All vehicle and outdoor storage areas, other than accessory parking, shall be located behind the front building line and screened, as necessary, from public view. 4. All repair services, including any permitted vehicular repair, shall be within an enclosed building or within a side or rear yard screened in accordance with §9.4. §5.14. B-2 General Business District Intent. To establish and preserve a retail business district convenient to the public and attractive for a wide range of retail and service uses usually found along major thoroughfares. 5.14.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.2. 5.14.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall apply (see also §4.12 General Regulations for Non-Residential Districts): 1. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: Thirty-five (35) ft b. Rear: fifteen (15) ft c. Side: 0 ft and/or as required by the Building and Fire Codes d. Rear and/or side yard setbacks shall be increased to include a Buffer if required by §9.2 Buffers. 2. Maximum Building Height: Sixty-five (65) ft or 5 stories 3. Corner Lot setbacks shall be the same on both streets. 5.14.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) 1. All vehicle and outdoor storage areas, other than accessory parking, shall be located behind the front building line and screened, as necessary, from public view. 2. All repair services, including any permitted vehicular repair, shall be within an enclosed building or within a side or rear yard screened in accordance with §9.4. §5.15. B-3 Downtown District Intent. This district is intended to promote the development and redevelopment of downtown Calera with a diverse mix of land uses that are consistent and compatible with the unique elements of the downtown area. The district regulations are designed to encourage the rehabilitation and re-use of existing historic and/or older buildings and structures to allow upper-story dwellings in mixed-use buildings. 5.15.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.3 Permitted Uses for B-3 and MXD Districts and the provisions herein: 1. Any existing single-family dwellings shall be permitted and may be altered or expanded though no new single-family dwellings shall be permitted. 2. Bed and breakfasts may be permitted in an existing dwelling. 5.15.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall apply (see also §4.12 General Regulations for Non-Residential Districts): 1. Minimum Yard Setbacks. a. Front: All commercial and mixed-use buildings shall be located within ten (10) ft of the front lot line, with the exception of subsection 4 below. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 55   (1) Institutional buildings shall be located within twenty (20) ft of the front lot line. (2) No parking, gas pumps, drive-through facilities or other vehicular areas shall be permitted forward of the front building line. (3) Buildings shall be set back as necessary to accommodate a sidewalk of at least twelve (12) ft, measured from the curb to the front building line. Such setback may be in the form of an easement or may be dedicated as part of the adjoining street right-of-way. b. Side: 0 ft and/or as required by the Building and Fire Codes c. Rear: five (5) ft 2. Building Standards. a. Maximum Building Height: Sixty-five (65) ft or 5 stories  3. Building Facades. a. All buildings shall maintain a public entrance, accessible by public sidewalk, along the street on which the building fronts. b. At least 15% of each story of the facade must be glass. Each story is calculated independently from finish floor to finish ceiling. c. At least 70% of the first story of commercial use buildings must be clear, un-tinted glass. Area is calculated between two feet and ten feet above the adjacent sidewalk. Any existing historic building is exempt from this requirement. d. Building facades must use durable materials. Durable materials include brick, stucco (EIFS is not permitted within 36 inches of finished grade), heavy timber, cementitious siding, wood, slate, metal roofing, tile, metal may be used as an accent material. Vinyl is not considered a durable material. 5.15.3. Parking Standards. 1. Parking Location. New parking on the site must comply with the following: a. Parking is required to be behind the building, with the exception of on-street parking. b. Sites with alley access must use the alley for parking access. 2. Parking Requirements. Table 8.3.4 Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for B-3 and MXD Districts regulates parking requirements per use in the B-3 district, with the following exemption: No minimum parking requirements apply in the City’s Main Street District bounded by 13th Street,18th Avenue, State Route 25, and the CSX Railroad [to the north and east]. 5.15.4. Sign Regulations. This section sets a higher standard than the City of Calera Sign Ordinance and replaces those standards when in conflict. 1. No sign will be regulated for content or type as assigned by content. Signs will only be regulated for size, structural type, number, and location. 2. Signs permitted in the B-3 district are regulated by Table 5.5 B-3 Downtown District Sign Regulations, where the notations have the following meanings: a. “P” means the sign is permitted subject to the size restrictions. b. “X” means the sign is prohibited. 3. Awning signs and projecting signs may extend into the public right-of-way to within two feet of the curb. Awning and projecting signs within the right-of-way must maintain an eight foot clearance above the sidewalk. 4. Sandwich board signs are permitted in B-3 districts between the hours of 9 AM and 9 PM and must maintain a clear pedestrian area a minimum of five feet in width. Sandwich board signs must be constructed of durable materials. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 56   Table 5.5 B-3 Downtown District Sign Regulations Sign Number Area Copy Height Awning 1 sloping plane & 1 valence per awning 75% of awning area 18 in. on sloping plane, 6 in. on valence Banner 1 per tenant 32 sq. ft. n/a Canopy 1 per canopy 2 sq. ft. per linear ft. 24 in. Monument 1 per street facade 48 sq. ft., 6 ft. high max. 12 in. Sandwich Board 1 per tenant 9 sq. ft. n/a Projecting 1 per tenant 6 sq. ft. 12 in. Suspended 1 per tenant 6 sq. ft. n/a Facade 1 per tenant 3 sq. ft. per linear ft. 16 in. Window 1 per window 20% of glass area 12 in. 5.15.5. Additional Regulations (When Applicable). 1. All repair services, including any permitted vehicular repair, shall be within an enclosed building or within a side or rear yard screened in accordance with §9.4. 2. Utilities. All outdoor electrical, plumbing, and mechanical equipment must be located behind the front facade or concealed from street view with a screen or wall. These facilities may not encroach into any setback. §5.16. M-1 Light Industrial District Intent. This district consists of areas where limited industrial uses are permitted. The district encourages employment centers with a low degree of environmental impact. Principal industrial activities light manufacturing, light industry, warehousing, wholesaling, distribution, services and other limited impact activities. The M-1 Light Industrial District also allows for selected commercial and institutional uses which are supportive of industrial centers. 5.16.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.2 and the provisions herein: 1. Wholesale and warehousing operations shall not engage in the storage of dangerous or offensive items of an explosive or toxic nature. 5.16.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required (see also §4.12 General Regulations for Non-Residential Districts): 1. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: Seventy-five (75) ft b. Rear: fifteen (15) ft c. Side: 0 ft and/or as required by the Fire and Building Codes d. Rear and/or side yard setbacks shall be increased to include a Buffer if required by §9.2 Buffers. 2. Maximum Building Height: Forty-five (45) ft or 3 stories 3. Corner Lot setbacks shall be the same on both streets. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 57   5.16.3. Additional Regulations (When Applicable) 1. All repair services, including any permitted vehicular repair, shall be within an enclosed building or within a side or rear yard screened in accordance with §9.4. §5.17. M-2 Heavy Industrial District Intent. To provide suitable areas where heavy industrial uses are permitted. This district encourages employment centers where a potentially high to moderate degree of environmental impact uses can be located, including general and heavy manufacturing and industry. 5.17.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.2. 5.17.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required (see also §4.12 General Regulations for Non-Residential Districts): 1. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: None specified, the Commission shall determine setback requirements during the site plan review process. b. Rear: Same as front requirement above. c. Side: Same as front requirement above. 2. Corner Lot setbacks shall be the same on both streets. §5.18. M-3 Heavy Industrial District Intent. To provide suitable areas where heavy industrial uses are permitted. This district encourages employment centers where a potentially high to moderate degree of environmental impact uses can be located, including general and heavy manufacturing and industry. 5.18.1. Use Regulations. Refer to Table 5.2. 5.18.2. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this Ordinance, the following area and dimensional regulations shall be required (see also §4.12 General Regulations for Non-Residential Districts): 1. Minimum Yard Setbacks: a. Front: None specified, the Commission shall determine setback requirements during the site plan review process. b. Rear: Same as front requirement above. c. Side: Same as front requirement above. 2. Corner Lot setbacks shall be the same on both streets. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 58   Table 5.2 Permitted Uses for Non-Residential Districts A-1 O&I B-1 B-2 M-1 M-2 M-3 Agricultural Uses   Farms, §7.1 Y   Farm Support Business SE Y  Hobby Farms, §7.2 Y   Livestock Sales and Auctions SE   Stables Y   Residential Uses   Family Day Care Homes, §7.21 Y   Home Occupations, §7.9 Y   Live-Work/Upper Story Dwellings, §7.22 Y  Manufactured, Modular Homes SE   Single-Family Detached Dwellings Y   Commercial Uses   Airports C C  Bakeries, Major  Y  Bakeries, Minor Y  Banks or Financial Services Y Y Y  Bed and Breakfasts, §7.18 Y   Broadcast Studio Y  Businesses or Professional Offices Y Y Y Y  Business Support Services Y Y Y Y  Campgrounds Y C  Car Washes Y  Clinics Y Y Y  Commercial Parking Y Y  Commercial Schools Y Y  Convenience Stores Y Y  Day Care Centers, §7.21 Y Y Y  Entertainment, Indoor Y  Entertainment, Outdoor C   Funeral Homes Y Y  Garages, Repair  Y  Garden Centers or Nurseries Y  Gasoline Service Stations, §7.4 Y Y Y  General Retail, Enclosed Y Y  General Retail, Unenclosed Y  Grocery Stores / Supermarket Y  Home Improvement Centers Y Y  Hotels Y  Inns Y  Kennels SE Y Y Liquor Lounges Y  Manufactured Home Sales C  Medical Support Services Y  Mini-warehouses, §7.10  Y  Motels Y  Y – The use is permitted by right subject to any limitations of the applicable district. Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted subject to §2.6 Interpretation of Uses and §2.7 Unclassified Uses. SE – Special Exception Use, requires approval by ZBA (see §2.8). May also be subject to district limitations. C – Conditional Use, requires approval by the Commission (see §2.9). May also be subject to district limitations. A use followed by a numeric cross-reference is also subject to the regulations referenced. A blank cell indicates that the use is not permitted. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 59   A-1 O&I B-1 B-2 M-1 M-2 M-3 Commercial Uses (cont.) Personal Services Y Y Y  Pet Services Y SE Y Y Y Printing Establishment, Minor Y  Restaurants, Fast Food, §7.5 Y  Restaurants, Fast Food, with no drive-thru   Restaurants, Standard Y  Seasonal Sales, §7.14 Y Y  Shopping Centers, §7.3 Y Y  Studios C Y  Truck Stops C  Vehicle Repair, Major SE Y  Vehicle Repair, Minor Y Y Y  Vehicle Sales or Rental Y  Institutional Uses   Animal Shelters Y Y Y Cemeteries, §7.8 Y   Clubs Y   Country Clubs Y   Hospitals, §7.6 C  Military Installations C C  Nursing Care Facilities, §7.7 Y  Parks Y Y Y Y Y  Penal Institutions C   Places of Assembly SE SE SE SE SE  Public Buildings, §7.16 Y Y Y Y Y  Public Utility Facilities SE Y Y Y Y Y Public Utility Services Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Schools Y Y C  Industrial Uses   Construction Services SE Y Y Y Industrial Uses, General  Y Y Heavy Industries  Y Y Industrial Parks, §7.12  Y Y Y Maintenance Services  Y  Manufacturing, Heavy  Y Y Manufacturing, Light  Y Y Y Outdoor Storage  SE SE Warehousing, wholesaling and distribution  Y Y Y Quarters for a watchman or custodian  Y Y Y Recycling Plants  C Y Research Laboratory  Y  Resource Extraction and Processing  Y Y Salvage Yards  C Y Sanitary Landfills  C C Truck Terminal  Y  Vehicle and Equipment Sales, Major  Y  Wrecker Service SE SE Y Y Telecommunications Uses   Satellite Dish Antennas, §6.7 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Transmission Towers (Commercial), §7.13 SE SE SE SE SE Wireless Facilities, §7.11 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y – The use is permitted by right subject to any limitations of the applicable district. Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted subject to §2.6 Interpretation of Uses and §2.7 Unclassified Uses. SE – Special Exception Use, requires approval by ZBA (see §2.8). May also be subject to district limitations. C – Conditional Use, requires approval by the Commission (see §2.9). May also be subject to district limitations. A use followed by a numeric cross-reference is also subject to the regulations referenced. A blank cell indicates that the use is not permitted. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 60   Table 5.3 Permitted Uses for B-3 and MXD Districts B-3 MXD Residential Uses  Accessory Dwellings, §7.17 SE SE Duplexes Y Cottage Subdivisions, §7.20 Y Home Occupations, §7.9 Y Y Live-Work/Upper Story Dwellings, §7.22 Y Y Multi-family Dwellings, §7.15 R R Mixed-use building Y Y Single-family Dwellings, Detached Y Single-family Dwellings, Semi-detached Y Townhouses Y Commercial Uses  Adult-Oriented Services  Alternative Financial Services  Bakeries Y Y Banks or Financial Services Y Y Bed and Breakfasts, §7.18 Y Businesses or Professional Offices Y Y Business Support Services Y Y Brew Pubs Y Y CBD Shops SE SE Clinics SE SE Commercial Schools Y Y Consignment Stores R Convenient Stores  Day Care Centers, §7.21 Y Y Entertainment, Indoor Y Y Funeral Homes SE SE Garages, Repair  Garden Centers or Nurseries Y Y Gasoline Service Stations, §7.4 Y General Retail, Enclosed R R General Retail, Unenclosed C C Grocery Stores / Supermarket R R Home Improvement Centers R R Hotels R Y Inns Y Y Liquor Lounges Y Y Massage Parlors  Microbrewery Y Y Medical Support Services Y Y Mini-warehouses  Motels  Personal Services Y Y Pet Services, without boarding SE Y Printing Establishment, Minor Y Y Restaurants R R Y – The use is permitted by right subject to any limitations of the applicable district. Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted subject to §2.6 Interpretation of Uses and §2.7 Unclassified Uses. SE – Special Exception Use, requires approval by ZBA (see §2.8). May also be subject to district limitations. C – Conditional Use, requires approval by the Commission (see §2.9). May also be subject to district limitations. R - means the use is allowed upon meeting the conditions set forth in Table 5.4 Use Restrictions for B-3 and MXD Districts A use followed by a numeric cross-reference is also subject to the regulations referenced. A blank cell indicates that the use is not permitted. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 61   B-3 MXD Commercial Uses (cont.) Seasonal Sales, §7.14 Y Y Secondhand Stores  Self-storage Facilities  Studios Y Y Tattoo and/or Body Art Establishments  Thrift Stores  Tobacco and/or Vape Shops  Vehicle Repair, Minor Y Vehicle Sales or Rental C Institutional Uses  Cultural, including libraries, museums, galleries and auditoriums R Y Parks Y Y Places of Assembly SE SE Public Buildings, §7.16 R R Public Utility Facilities  Public Utility Services SE SE Schools R Industrial Uses  Industrial Uses, General  Industrial Parks, §7.12  Manufacturing, Artisan Y Manufacturing, Light SE Warehousing, wholesaling and distribution R Salvage Yards  Telecommunications Uses  Satellite Dish Antennas, §6.7 SE SE Transmission Towers (Commercial), §7.13 SE SE Wireless Facilities, §7.11 SE SE Y – The use is permitted by right subject to any limitations of the applicable district. Similar uses to those listed may also be permitted subject to §2.6 Interpretation of Uses and §2.7 Unclassified Uses. SE – Special Exception Use, requires approval by ZBA (see §2.8). May also be subject to district limitations. C – Conditional Use, requires approval by the Commission (see §2.9). May also be subject to district limitations. R - means the use is allowed upon meeting the conditions set forth in Table 5.4 Use Restrictions for B-3 and MXD Districts A use followed by a numeric cross-reference is also subject to the regulations referenced. A blank cell indicates that the use is not permitted. Table 5.4 Use Restrictions for B-3 and MXD Districts Use B-3 MXD  Residential Uses 20 units or rooms max. 32 units or rooms max. Commercial Use 30,000 sq.ft. max 30,000 sq.ft. max Hotels 50 rooms max. Drive-up facilities Must meet the requirements in §7.23 Drive-through Facilities  Institutional Uses On-site parking may not exceed 30 spaces. On-site parking may not exceed 50 spaces. Industrial Uses 25,000 sq.ft. max  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 62   §5.19. MR Municipal Reserve District Intent. This district serves an interim zone for newly annexed areas of the municipality. The MR District seeks to protect newly annexed property prior to the time comprehensive zoning can be applied to the area(s). 5.19.1. Zoning of Annexed Area. On the effective date of annexation, all newly annexed property shall be zoned MR Municipal Reserve District. 5.19.2. Rezoning from the MR District. As soon as practicable following annexation, the Commission shall initiate a petition to rezone property annexed into the City from the MR District to any other district contained within this Ordinance. In making this determination, the Commission shall consider the following items, among others. 1. The Comprehensive Land Use Plan and/or a Commission Study of the area(s). 2. The desires of property owners in the area(s) subject to rezoning. 3. Compatibility with surrounding development and availability of utilities. 4. The purposes and considerations of zoning as contained in this Ordinance as well as Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11- 52-72 and as same may be amended. 5.19.3. Permitted Uses and Development Standards. All uses in existence at the time of annexation may lawfully continue under the provisions of the MR District. However, at such time as rezoning is accomplished, all applications shall be subject to the uses permitted in the zone or zones assigned to the subject property along with all criteria and requirements. 5.19.4. Action on Annexation Ordinances. All annexation ordinances enacted by the City shall include the provision that the property shall be temporary zoned MR. A copy of the annexation ordinance shall be transmitted to the Zoning Administrator and the Commission for action. §5.20. PUD Planned Unit Development District Intent. Planned Unit Development (PUD) is a method of development which permits more than one use to be developed on a tract of land, in part or whole, in accordance with an approved master development plan: the intent of which is to: • Permit flexibility and consequently more creative and imaginative design to accommodate planned associations of uses developed as integral land use units such as industrial or office parks or complexes, commercial uses, service centers, residential developments of multiple or mixed housing, including multi-family dwellings, attached and detached single- family dwellings, or any appropriate combination of uses which may be planned, developed or operated as integral land use units; • Permit higher densities of land in conjunction with provisions for functional open space and community services; • Promote the efficient use of land to facilitate a more economic arrangement of uses, buildings, circulation systems and utilities, • Combine and coordinate uses, building forms, building relationship, and architectural styles within PUD, • Promote the preservation and enhancement of existing natural landscape features, their scenic qualities and amenities to the greatest extent possible, and utilize such features in a harmonious fashion; • Except a development from the conventional zoning regulations regarding setbacks, minimum yard size, minimum greenbelts, off-street parking regulations, minimum floor areas, and other regulations to achieve the intent described herein; • Give the developer reasonable assurance of ultimate approval before expending complete design monies while providing city officials with reasonable assurance that the development will retain the character envisioned at the time of concurrence. 5.20.1. Application and Requirements for a PUD 1. Submission of Application. In lieu of the provisions of §2.9.3 Petition for Amendment herein, the owner (or his duly appointed representative) of a tract of land shall submit to the Zoning Administrator a minimum of twenty-one (21) days prior to a regularly scheduled Commission meeting an application for approval of a PUD. A $150.00 fee to defray the cost of processing the application is required at the time of filing. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 63   2. Area Requirements. Except when the master development plan of an existing approved PUD is amended by the original applicant, successor or assigns, to include additional area as provided in §5.20.6, any tract of land to be zoned PUD shall have a minimum of 150 acres. 3. Contents of Application. The application submitted in accordance with this §5.20.1 shall contain the following: a. Name and address of the applicant. b. Current zoning of the property under consideration. c. List of owners of the property together with disclosure of name(s) and address(es) of the applicant(s) and/or owner(s): (1) If corporation, principal officers and members of the Board of Directors; (2) If partnership, general and managing partners; (3) Any material change to the above shall be submitted within 60 days. d. A Master Development Plan of the PUD and any maps necessary to show the following minimum information. (1) The direction of North, exact location of the site in relation to the vicinity in which it is located, appropriate scale and topography (in not greater- than 5 ft contour intervals) water ways, and forest cover. (2) The location of the various land uses by PUD land use districts as listed in §5.20.4. (3) Location of any existing streets and general outlines of the interior roadway system, greenbelts, natural or man- made open spaces, schools, parks and community service areas within and adjacent to the project area. e. The Planning Criteria of the PUD. The application shall include the following written statements and other matters: (1) A legal description of the total site proposed for the PUD. (2) A general description of the surrounding area, including current zoning and/or land uses. (3) A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the PUD through the particular approach proposed by the applicant and how they are consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Plan. The statement should include a description of the character of the proposed development and the rationale behind the assumptions and projections made by the applicant in relation to the overall community growth. (4) If the development is to be staged, a general indication, of how the staging is to proceed, including an estimated date when construction of the PUD will begin. (5) Delineation of the various land use districts, indicating for each such area its general extent, size and composition in terms of total number of acres. In residential use districts the total number of dwelling units and approximate percentage allocation by dwelling unit type (i.e. townhouses, garden homes, single family detached, condominiums or duplexes) shall be provided, and for non-residential use districts, the gross square footage of non-residential uses. (6) A calculation of the residential density in dwelling units per gross acre including interior roadways, including maximum density in units per acre. (7) Development criteria which shall include setbacks or other location methods, minimum finished floor areas, sign criteria, loading areas, greenbelts, buffers, and off street parking requirements for each land use district proposed, and/or any other development criteria which the owner/developer may propose. (8) The interior open space system. (9) Principal ties to the community at large with respect to transportation, water supply and sewage disposal. (10) General statement as to how common open space is to be owned and maintained (11) Protective and/or restrictive covenants, homeowner or business associations and architectural review committees and their function. (12) A general statement concerning any planned street/subdivision sign designs, including street, traffic and informational signs or other standards. (13) Any planned interim uses (14) A traffic study may be required, if determined necessary by the City Engineer (15) Landscaping criteria 5.20.2. Other Regulations not Applicable. It is the intent of this §5.20 that the PUD application shall set forth development criteria applicable to the property and that flexibility be allowed in the construction of improvements thereon. Accordingly, for the  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 64   purposes of this §5.20, Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9 shall not apply to this §5.20. The development criteria submitted with the application for the PUD will set forth sign, off-street parking and loading requirements, and supplemental regulations (including standards for specific uses as provided in Article 7). If the application does not contain such information, or if the Commission finds that the criteria is insufficient or incompatible with the Comprehensive Plan and the intent of these regulations, then the provisions of Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9 shall apply. 5.20.3. Review Procedure. 1. General. The application shall be reviewed as provided in §2.9 2. Approval. Approval of the application for the PUD by the Council shall be an approval of the Master Development Plan and Planning Criteria of the application (the “Plan”). The developer of the PUD may proceed with the development of the property in accordance with the Plan, and no further approvals shall be required, except as set forth in §5.20.5. 3. Special Exceptions not Applicable. §2.8.3 Special Exception Uses shall not apply within areas having a PUD designation as provided in this §5.20. Special exception uses may be submitted as part of the original application and be reviewed by the Commission and approved by the Council without being heard by the ZBA. 5.20.4. PUD Land Use District. It is intended that the flexibility of the PUD will allow, in appropriate circumstances, mixed uses on any particular parcel within the PUD, taking into consideration the compatibility of the intended uses with the surrounding use(s). “Mixed Use", as used herein, shall be defined as a combination of principal permitted use(s) and special exception use(s) and shall be considered as a "special exception use" under each land use district. For the purposes of this §5.20, §4.4 Joint Occupancy shall not apply. The following PUD land use districts shall apply to all or part of a PUD. 1. Planned Single-Family (PR-1) a. Intent. To provide for maximum flexibility in the development of single family residences and to coordinate with appropriate community services. b. Permitted Uses. Uses shall be permitted as shown in Table 5.20. c. Maximum Building Height. Buildings in the PR-1 District shall not exceed three (3) stories in height and shall conform to the City Building Code, Fire Code and Fire Prevention Code. d. With the exception of townhouses, lots shall be greater than forty (40) ft in width. 2. Planned Multi-Family (PR-2) a. Intent. To provide for maximum flexibility in the development of multi-family residences and to coordinate with appropriate community services. b. Permitted Uses. Uses shall be permitted as shown in Table 5.20. c. Maximum Building Height. When a building is within 300 ft of a single family residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed three (3) stories in height. When a building is more than 500 ft from a residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed six (6) stories in height, unless approved as a special exception use. All buildings shall conform to the City Building Code, Fire Code and Fire Prevention Code. 3. Planned Office (PO) a. Intent. To provide for maximum flexibility in the development of areas for coordinated employment activity, services and compatible residential uses which do not materially detract from nearby residential areas. b. Permitted Principal Uses. Uses shall be permitted as shown in Table 5.20. In addition, offices used exclusively for office purposes shall be permitted, wherein retail or wholesale trade or business is not conducted or wherein no merchandise or products are manufactured, stored, handled, conveyed, sold or otherwise disposed of; together with usual related support businesses (such as, but not limited to, restaurants and food service restaurants, drug stores, barber shops, beauty parlors, and like uses), provided that such related support uses are physically located inside the structures devoted to the permitted principal uses set forth above. c. Maximum Building Height. When a building is within 300 ft of a single family residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed three (3) stories in height. When a building is more than 500 ft from a single family residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed six stories in height, unless approved as a special exception use. All buildings shall conform to the City Building Code, Fire Code and Fire Prevention Code. 4. Planned Commercial (PC)  Article 5 Establishment of Districts 65   a. Intent. To provide for maximum flexibility in the development of retail business districts and other compatible uses. b. Permitted Uses. Uses shall be permitted as shown in Table 5.20. On-premise and off-premise sale of alcoholic beverages, including private clubs, night clubs; liquor stores and lounges shall be approved by the Council. c. Maximum Building Height. When a building is within 300 ft of a single family residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed three (3) stories in height. When a building is more than 500 ft from a single family residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed six (6) stories in height, unless approved as a special exception use. All buildings shall conform to the City Building Code, Fire Code and Fire Prevention Code. 5. Planned Business (PB) a. Intent. To provide for maximum flexibility in the establishment of areas compatible with the office, commercial and limited light industrial uses which are performed inside buildings with limited outside storage or operations that may be adjacent to residential districts. b. Permitted Uses. Uses shall be permitted as shown in Table 5.20. c. Maximum Building Height. When a building is within 300 ft of a single family residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed three (3) stories in height. When a building is more than 500 ft from a single family residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed six (6) stories in height, unless approved as a special exception use. All buildings shall conform to the City Building Code, Fire Code and Fire Prevention Code. 6. Planned Light Industrial (PI) a. Intent. To provide for maximum flexibility in the establishment of areas compatible with commercial and light industrial uses. b. Permitted Uses. Uses shall be permitted as shown in Table 5.20. c. Maximum Building Height. When a building is within 300 ft of a single family residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed three (3) stories in height. When a building is more than 500 ft from a single family residential district boundary, said building shall not exceed six (6) stories in height, unless approved as a special exception use. All buildings shall conform to the City Building Code, Fire Code and Fire Prevention Code. 5.20.5. Building Permit. 1. General. The developer of the PUD shall proceed with the development of the property in accordance with the plan and no further approvals shall be required except as set forth in this §5.20.5. If plans are submitted for the construction of improvements on any particular parcel within the PUD, a Building Permit shall be approved or disapproved according to the procedure set forth in this §5.20.5. 2. Issuance of Permits for Permitted Principal Uses. Upon application for a Building Permit for the construction of improvements on any parcel within the PUD, if the Building Official shall determine that the intended use of the improvements is a "principal permitted use" within the applicable land use district of the PUD, then a Building Permit shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of §2.2. 3. Subdivision Plats and Roads. Nothing in this §5.20 shall be construed to require a Building Permit for approval of subdivision plats or road designs. The construction of roads within the PUD require approval of preliminary and final subdivision plats and all required design drawings according to the Subdivision Regulations of the City to build roads and infrastructure. 5.20.6. Amendment to the Plan. 1. Intent. It is the intent of this §5.20 to provide for flexibility in the development of the property submitted for the PUD, and to approve minor changes administratively. Accordingly, additional approvals shall be required only for major changes as defined in §5.20.6.2. 2. Major Change. A "major change" in the plan shall be defined as a change in the boundaries of any land use district reflected on the master development plan, and any changes in the planning criteria submitted with the master development plan, including a change in an approved use from one that is permitted to one that is categorized as a “special exception” within the applicable PUD land use district. No segment, tract, lot or parcel of land within the approved PUD shall be processed for a change of land use districts, to other PUD land use district or conventional zoning districts unless the total PUD is submitted along with the rezoning request. Any other changes shall be considered "minor changes" and shall not require any additional approvals, other than the plat approval which shall be obtained through the typical plat approval procedures of the City and all said plats for a PUD will be reviewed and approved on the basis of the approved planning criteria of the PUD only. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 66   3. Approval of Major Changes. Whenever the developer of the PUD shall request a major change in the plan, the developer shall file an application for change which shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of §5.20.3. 5.20.7. Time Limit for Development of the Plan. If no construction has begun with six (6) months from the estimated and approved start up date of the PUD, as indicated by §5.20.1.3.e(4), said approval shall lapse and be of no further effect. The Planning and Zoning Commission, upon showing of good cause by the developer, may extend for period(s) of three (3) months for the beginning of construction and development shall commence each year on five (5) acres and said construction should continue and be completed within a reasonable time. 5.20.8. Definitions. 1. Intent. The intent of this §5.20.8 is to clarify terms of this §5.20. For the purpose of this §5.20, certain terms used herein are herewith defined, and if any terms defined herewith in this §5.20.8 shall contradict or conflict with any terms defined in Article 3 or in any other Section of this Ordinance, those terms as defined in Article 3 or other Sections shall not apply to this §5.20 2. Definitions. a. ATTACHED SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING Those buildings so designed and arranged to provide separate sleeping, cooking, and kitchen accommodations and toilet facilities for occupancy of more than two families where by the living units are built for sale, fee simple, and not for lease, including condominiums and townhouses. b. DETACHED SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING A detached building so designed and arranged to provide sleeping, cooking, and kitchen accommodations and toilet - facilities for occupancy by one family only, and are built for sale, fee simple, and not for lease. c. MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS A structure designed or used for residential occupancy by more than two families, with or without common or separate kitchen facilities or dining facilities, and which is leased in part or whole, including apartment houses, apartment hotels, rooming houses, boarding houses, fraternities, sororities, dormitories, or similar housing types, but not including hotels, motels, hospitals, or nursing homes. d. OPEN SPACE Any greenbelt, park, lake, river or recreational development or area which is owned in common or private, devoid of any buildings and other physical structures, except where accessory to the provision of recreation opportunities, and which is developed, located and/or maintained so as to provide relatively permanent recreation opportunity either in the passive sense (such as the viewing of pleasant vista, gardens, etc.) or in the active sense, (such as the participation in athletic endeavors, playground activities, etc.) to the general public or may be restricted to use for a homeowner or business association membership or segment thereof. e. INTERIM USES Any temporary use of land in any area of a PUD, which has been approved as a part of the PUD development plan and criteria. An interim use can be any use and may or may not be a principal permitted use or a special exception use of the applicable district. f. PLAT Any drawing or drawings and related written material indicating the proposed manner or layout of a road, parcel, and/or subdivision to be submitted to the City for approvals and/or recording purposes. 5.20.9. Changes to Zoning Ordinances. No amendment or modifications of this Zoning Ordinance shall be effective as to any PUD approval issued prior to such amendment or modification, it being intended that the PUD shall continue to be developed in accordance with the Zoning Ordinance in erect at the time of such prior approval. 5.20.10. Repealer. All ordinances or parts of ordinances heretofore adopted by the City Council of the City of Calera, Alabama which are inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby expressly repealed. 5.20.11. Severability. If any part, Section or subdivision of this ordinance shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such holding shall not be construed to invalidate or impair the remainder of this ordinance, which shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding such holding. 5.20.12. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon adoption and publication as provided by law. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 67   Table 5.20 PUD Land Use District Table of Permitted Uses PR-1 PR-2 PO PC PB PI Agricultural Uses   Farm machinery and farm supply sales  P Residential Uses   Accessory Dwellings Y Y  Attached single-family dwellings (condominiums and townhouses) Y SE SE  Detached single-family dwellings (including garden homes) Y SE  Semi-detached single-family dwellings Y SE  Duplexes Y SE  Live-Work/Upper Story dwellings SE SE SE SE Multi-family dwellings Y SE SE SE Residential accessory structures and buildings Y Y  Institutional Uses   Assisted living care facilities SE SE Y SE SE Child day-care centers SE SE SE Y SE SE Places of Assembly SE SE SE SE SE SE Libraries, museums and art galleries SE SE SE SE SE SE Nursing homes SE SE Y Y Public buildings Y Y Y Y Public and Private schools (not providing residential accommodations) SE SE SE Y Y Y Commercial Uses   Animal kennels, Domestic  Y Appliance and small engine repair Y Y Y Art supply and frame shops Y Y Y Audio/video stores Y Y Y Auto dealerships Y Y Y Auto parts stores Y Y Y Auto repair/renovation facilities (not housed with auto sales establishment)   Y Bakeries (for baked goods sold at retail on-premises only) Y Y Y Banks and other lending institutions Y Y Y Y Bicycle shops (including repair) Y Y Y Building materials sales (no outside storage yards) Y Y Y Building materials sales (with outside storage yards) and lumber yards  Y Card, gift and florist shops and drug stores Y Y Y Convenience commercial uses SE SE SE Y Y Y Craft and hobby shops, toy and sporting goods stores Y Y Y Dance studios Y Y Y Department and jewelry stores Y Y Y Duplicating and copying services Y Y Y Furniture and interior decorating stores Y Y Y Gasoline service establishments (including muffler, tire, battery, brake and transmission services) and car washes  Y Y Y Grocery and health food stores Y Y Y Hardware stores and domestic equipment rental Y Y Y Heavy equipment sales and service  Y Home occupations SE SE SE  Hotels, inns and motels Y Y Y Y – The use is permitted by right. SE – Special Exception Use, requires approval pursuant to §5.20.3. A blank cell indicates that the use is not permitted. Table continued on following page  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 68   Table 5.20 PUD Land Use District Table of Permitted Uses cont. PR-1 PR-2 PO PC PB PI Commercial Uses (cont.) Indoor sports facilities (bowling, health club or spa, racquet club, skating rink)  Y Y Y Indoor recreational and amusement uses SE SE SE Medical clinics and opticians Y Y Y Motion picture theaters Y Y Y Neighborhood service facilities Y Y Y Personal services (barber and beauty shops, cosmetic studios, dry cleaning outlets and coin-op laundromats, tanning salons, shoe repair, etc.) Y  Y  Y Photographic studios Y Y Y Pet Services (with no outside runs) Y Y Y Radio and TV stations (no antennae) Y Y Y Research laboratories  Y Y Residential information offices SE SE SE  Restaurants Y Y Y Sales showrooms for appliances, furniture, carpet, lighting fixtures, medical and office equipment  Y Y Y Shopping centers, factory outlet stores Y Y Y Industrial Uses   Bakeries  Y Bottling plants  Y (Bulk) Distribution facilities  Y Y Clothing, textile or dying plant  Y Cold storage and ice plants  Y Construction yards, highway maintenance yards and buildings  Y Janitorial and maintenance services  Y Y Laundry and dry cleaning plants  Y Light industrial, fabricating, processing assembling and manufacturing uses  Y Y Plumbing, heating and cooling, electrical and other supply and service facilities  Y Y Printing establishments  Y Recycling collection point  Y Sanitary sewage treatment facilities  Y Truck or bus terminals  Y Warehouses (including mini-warehouses, self-storage facilities and office/warehouses)  Y Y Water or liquid storage tanks  Y Woodworking shops  Y Y Recreational and Open Space Uses   Recreational facilities operated on a non-profit basis SE SE SE SE SE SE Golf courses SE SE SE SE SE SE Golf courses (if shown on Master Development Plan) Y SE SE SE SE SE Open spaces Y SE SE SE SE SE Outdoor amusements and recreation facilities (carpet golf, par-3 golf, go-carts, batting cages, bumper boats, water slides, etc.) Y Y Y Parks (playgrounds, tot-lots, ball fields, picnic areas, etc.) SE SE SE SE SE SE Swimming pools and tennis courts SE SE SE SE SE SE Y – The use is permitted by right. SE – Special Exception Use, requires approval pursuant to §5.20.3. A blank cell indicates that the use is not permitted. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 69    §5.21. TND Traditional Neighborhood Development District 5.21.1. Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this section is to allow the optional development and redevelopment of land consistent with the design principles of traditional neighborhoods. A Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND): 1. Is compact and designed for the human scale; 2. Provides a mix of uses in close proximity to one another within the neighborhood; 3. Provides a mix of housing styles, types, and sizes to accommodate households of all ages, sizes, and incomes; 4. Incorporates a system of relatively narrow, interconnected streets with sidewalks and bikeways that offer multiple routes for motorists, pedestrians, and bicyclists and provides for the connections of those streets to existing and future developments; and 5. Incorporates significant environmental features into the design. 5.21.2. Applicability. This section is an alternative set of standards for development for: 1) new development of thirty (30) acres or more; 2) fifteen (15) acres or more for development contiguous to existing development; or 3) five (5) acres or more for development of areas designated as neighborhood centers in the Comprehensive Plan. 5.21.3. Definitions. The following definitions shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise. 1. BUILDING SCALE The relationship between the size of a building and its surroundings, including street width, open space, and surrounding buildings. 2. PLAZA A civic space, predominantly hardscaped, and enclosed on at least two or three sides by building facades. Plazas may be publicly or privately owned but, in either case, are designed and maintained for public use. 3. SQUARE A Common Open Space that serves as the focal point for a traditional neighborhood development. It is typically surrounded by commercial or mixed-uses and may include a landmark structure or building. 5.21.4. Procedures. 1. TND Plans shall be submitted, reviewed and approved as described for PUDs in §5.20.1, §5.20.3, and §5.20.5.1 except as provided following: 2. Initial Conference. Before submitting an application, the applicant shall schedule an appointment and meet with City staff to discuss procedures for approval, submittal requirements and design standards. 3. Master Development Plan Submittal Requirements. The purpose of the general implementation plan is to establish the intent, density, and intensity for a proposed TND development. In addition to the submittal requirements of §2.10 Amendments, any request for approval of a Master Plan of a TND shall also include the following items: a. A conceptual storm water management plan identifying the proposed patterns of major storm water runoff, location of storm water infiltration areas, and other significant storm water best management practices. b. A pattern book representing the site design and architectural patterns of typical residential and non-residential buildings. Design patterns shall be conveyed with illustrations of typical proposed elevations including building heights, widths and façade treatments. c. the location of sidewalks, trails, passages and other pedestrian and bicycle circulation elements d. typical street cross sections including streetscape elements (street and pedestrian lighting, street trees, paving patterns, etc.) e. A utilities plan showing underground and above ground lines and structures for sanitary sewers, electricity, gas telecommunications, etc. 4. Amendments to the Master Plan. Amendments to the TND Master Plan shall follow the procedure in §5.20.6 except that minor amendments to the Master Plan may be approved by the Zoning Administrator provided that the changes do not involve: a. an increase of more than 10% of the floor area of structures other than single family detached dwellings; b. an increase of more than 10% of the number of dwelling units; or c. an alteration of any conditions or modifications to the Master Plan required by the Commission. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 70   5.21.5. Ownership and Maintenance of Public Space. See §6.11. 5.21.6. Permitted Uses and Arrangements. A TND should consist of a mix of residential areas, one or more neighborhood center(s), and common open space(s). 1. Open Spaces. The open space uses identified below should be incorporated into the development as appropriate. a. Environmental corridors/greenways b. Protected natural areas c. Neighborhood or community parks d. Streams, ponds and other water bodies e. Storm water detention/retention facilities 2. Residential Areas. A mix of the following residential land uses may be located with flexibility throughout the site. Higher density residential uses should be located nearest a neighborhood center. For infill development, the mix of residential uses may be satisfied by existing residential uses adjacent to the development. a. Single-family detached dwellings, duplexes and row houses b. Townhouses c. Multi-family dwellings, including independent and assisted living and group living quarters d. Accessory dwelling units on a single-family lot 3. Neighborhood Centers. A TND will include a neighborhood center composed of a mix of commercial, residential, civic or institutional, and open space uses as identified herein. The development should be laid out such that all residential blocks are within a ten (10) minute walk (approximately 2,800 ft measured along pedestrian routes) from a neighborhood center. a. Commercial Uses. The interior square footage of individual businesses should not exceed 6,000 sf, but may be larger for specialty and bulk sales stores. In addition, the following active, pedestrian-oriented uses are permitted and encouraged: (1) Food services, including but not limited to neighborhood grocery stores; butchers and bakeries; restaurants; cafes; coffee shops; neighborhood bars or pubs (2) Retail uses, including but not limited to florists; nurseries; hardware stores; stationery stores; book stores; studios and shops of artists and artists; apparel shops and home décor stores (3) Services, including but not limited to day care centers; music, dance or exercise studios; offices, including professional and medical offices; barber; hair salon; dry cleaning (4) Accommodations, including but not limited to bed and breakfasts, small hotels or inns b. Residential Uses. The following are permitted: (1) Single-family attached dwellings, including duplexes, townhouses, and row houses (2) Multi-family dwellings, including independent and assisted living and group living quarters (3) Residential units located on upper floors above commercial uses or to the rear of storefronts; c. Civic or Institutional Uses. The following are permitted: (1) Municipal offices, fire stations, libraries, museums, and post offices (2) Transit shelters (3) Places of assembly (4) Educational facilities d. Open Space Uses. The following are permitted: (1) Central squares (2) Plazas (3) Pocket parks (4) Neighborhood parks (5) Playgrounds (6) Storm water retention/detention facilities (where incorporated into one of the above)  Article 5 Establishment of Districts 71   5.21.7. Density Standards 1. Open Space. At least ten (10) percent of the gross acreage must be open space. At least twenty-five (25) percent of the open space shall be Common Open Space dedicated for public use. Ninety (90) percent of the lots within residential areas shall be within 1,400 ft from a Common Open Space. 2. Density in Residential Areas. Maximum residential shall be as follows: a. Single family, attached or detached: 8 du per acre b. Multi-family dwellings: 15 du per acre c. 1 accessory dwelling per single family lot 3. Density in Neighborhood Centers: a. Single family, attached: 10 du per acre b. Multi-family dwellings: 20 du per acre. 4. Non-residential GFA. The total ground floor area of non-residential uses, including off-street parking areas, shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the development except where the TND is oriented around and integrated with, through the interconnection of vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian ways, adjacent residential development. 5.21.8. Design Standards 1. Lot and Block Standards. a. Blocks shall be 200-400 ft deep by 400-800 ft long. Where topography averages over a twenty (20) percent slope and cross streets are not practical, longer blocks may be provided. b. A variety of lot sizes should be provided that allow for diverse housing types. 2. Building Frontage Standards. a. All non-residential buildings should abut a public sidewalk or a plaza. Civic or institutional buildings may also front on squares, lawns or similar landscaped frontages. b. Single-family detached dwellings, duplexes and row houses shall have a front yard setback (measured to sidewalk) between eight (8) and twenty-five (25) ft. Unenclosed porches shall not extend closer than eight (8) ft to the sidewalk. c. Townhouses and multi-family dwelling buildings shall be built to within eighteen (18) ft of the sidewalk. If located closer than twelve (12) ft to the sidewalk, the floor level of ground level dwellings shall be at least two (2) ft above or at least three (3) ft below sidewalk level. d. The front yard setback in residential areas with slopes averaging over twenty (20) percent may be greater than specified above provided that there is a plan for the landscaping treatment of the setback area. 3. Rear Setbacks. a. Single-family dwellings, attached and detached, shall be set back no less than thirty (30) ft from the rear lot line. b. Specific rear setbacks are not required for other uses. Where a multi-family or non-residential use abuts, at the rear, a single-family lot, a buffer, pedestrian passage, alley or similar separation of at least twenty (20) ft in width is required. c. Accessory structures shall be set back from rear lot lines as required in §6.6. 4. Side Setbacks. a. A minimum, aggregate side yard of ten (10) ft shall be provided between detached dwellings, duplexes and row houses. No side setbacks shall be required for townhouses. b. No side setbacks are required for multi-family and non-residential uses. However, where a multi-family or non- residential use abuts a single-family detached dwelling, duplex or row house along a side lot line, a minimum building separation of twenty (20) ft shall be required. c. Accessory structures shall be set back from side lot lines as required in §6.6. 5.21.9. Circulation Standards. The circulation system shall provide for different modes of transportation; shall provide links within and between residential areas, neighborhood center(s), and open spaces; and shall be connected to existing and proposed  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 72   external development. The circulation system shall provide adequate traffic capacity, provide property access from streets of lesser classification, and promote safe and efficient mobility throughout the TND. 1. Pedestrian Circulation. Where feasible, any existing pedestrian routes through the site shall be preserved and enhanced. Sidewalks shall be provided as follows: a. Public sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of any street within a neighborhood center or medium or high- density residential area and only on one side of any street within low-density residential areas in accordance with the following: (1) Neighborhood centers: sidewalks shall be at least ten (10) ft and maintain a clear pedestrian zone of at least six (6) ft (2) Medium and high density residential areas (4 or more du/acre): sidewalks shall be at least five (5) ft wide and buffered from the street by a planting strip at least four (4) ft wide (3) Low density residential areas (less than 4 du/acre): sidewalks shall be at least four (4) ft wide and buffered from the street by a planting strip at least six (6) ft wide b. Residential Sidewalks. Clear and well-lighted sidewalks shall connect residential building entrances to the adjacent public sidewalk. Shared sidewalks are acceptable. c. Neighborhood Center Sidewalks. Clear and well-lit walkways shall connect building entrances to the adjacent public sidewalk and to associated parking areas. Such walkways shall be a minimum of five (5) ft in width. d. Disabled Accessibility. Sidewalks shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act. e. Crosswalks. Crosswalks shall be well lit and clearly marked with contrasting paving materials at the edges or with striping. 2. Motor Vehicle Circulation. Motor vehicle circulation shall be designed to minimize conflicts with pedestrians and bicycles. Traffic calming features such as “yield flow” streets, curb extensions, roundabouts and traffic circles, and medians may be used to encourage slow traffic speeds. 3. Street Layout. The TND should maintain the existing street grid, where present, and restore any disrupted street grid where feasible. In addition: a. Corner Radii should be kept to the minimum practicable given the size of vehicles expected to use the particular intersection and the intended rate of speed at which turns will be taken. b. All streets shall terminate at other streets or at public land, with the following exceptions: (1) Local streets may terminate in stub streets when such streets act as connections to future development; (2) Local streets may terminate other than at other streets or public land when there is a connection to the pedestrian and bicycle path network at the terminus. (3) Where topography prevents the local street from terminating at another street or public land and the exceptions under Items (1) and (2) above are not practical, the local street may terminate in a cul-de-sac or “close” in accordance with the standards contained in the Public Works Manual. 5.21.10. Parking Standards. Parking areas for shared or community use should be encouraged. In addition: 1. In multi-family and non-residential areas, parking lots shall be located at the rear or side of buildings and landscaped as required in §9.3. 2. Parking lots and garages shall be separated from intersections by a building containing another use. 3. Adjacent on-street parking, if created as a part of the TND, may apply toward minimum parking requirements. 4. In residential areas, parking shall be provided on-site. 5. Parking shall be provided in the following amounts: a. Commercial uses: no less than one (1) space for every 500 sf of gross building area but no more than one (1) space for every 300 sf provided that parking can be shared with other uses b. Other non-residential uses and residential uses: as provided in Art. 8 c. Mixed-uses: for vertically or horizontally mixed uses, parking requirements shall be determined as provided in Art. 8  Article 5 Establishment of Districts 73   d. For multi-family and non-residential uses, a minimum of one (1) bicycle parking space for every ten (10) motor vehicle parking spaces shall be provided 6. Paving shall be as normally required by the City except as follows: a. Ribbon driveways may be used for single-family detached dwellings, duplexes, and row houses to reduce impervious surfaces. b. To reduce impervious surfaces, interlocking pavers, grid pavers, sand set paving blocks or other such paving systems may be required for remote parking lots and parking areas for periodic uses. 7. Outdoor lighting. Street lighting shall be provided along all streets. Generally more, smaller lights as opposed to fewer, high- intensity lights should be used. Street lights shall be installed on both sides of the street at intervals of no greater than eighty (80) ft. Exterior lighting shall be cut-off type or directed downward to reduce glare onto adjacent properties. 5.21.11. Architectural Standards. A variety of architectural features and building materials is encouraged to give each building or group of buildings a distinct character. 1. Guidelines for Existing Structures. If existing structures are determined to be historic or architecturally significant, they shall be protected from demolition or encroachment by incompatible structures or landscape development. The U.S. Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Properties shall be used as the criteria for renovating historic or architecturally significant structures. 2. Guidelines for New Structures. a. Height: New structures within a TND shall be no more than three (3) stories, forty-five (45) ft for single-family residential or four (4) stories, sixty-five (65) ft for commercial, multi-family residential or mixed use. b. The architectural features, materials, and the articulation of a facade shall be continued on all sides visible from a public street or common area. c. Principal buildings shall face onto a public street (except as provided for cottage subdivisions in §7.20) and shall not face directly toward a parking lot. d. Porches, pent roofs, roof overhangs, hooded front doors or other similar architectural elements shall be used to define the front entrance to residences. e. For commercial buildings, a minimum of fifty (50) percent of the street level facade shall be window or door openings. f. New structures on opposite sides of the same street should follow similar design guidelines. This provision shall not apply to buildings bordering civic uses. 5.21.12. Signage. A comprehensive sign program is required for the entire TND to establish a cohesive wayfinding system. 1. Signs for commercial uses shall be attached (wall signs or blade signs). Blade signs shall be mounted perpendicular to the building face and shall not exceed eight (8) sf. Wall signs shall be sized and placed to fit within the architectural elements of the facade. 2. Signs for multi-family buildings may be attached or detached. Such signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) sf. 3. Signs for institutional or civic uses may be attached or detached. Such signs shall not exceed twenty (20) sf. 4. Signs for live-work buildings shall be as provided for commercial uses in Paragraph 1 above. 5.21.13. Landscaping and Screening Standards. 1. Street trees. A minimum of one deciduous canopy tree per forty (40) ft of street frontage, or fraction thereof, shall be provided and evenly spaced. Street trees shall be located in the planting strip between the sidewalk and curb or in tree wells adjacent to the curb. In the case of existing overhead utility lines, understory trees may be used or trees may be planted within the front yard setback adjacent to the sidewalk. 2. Parking lot landscaping and screening shall be provided as required in §9.3 and as follows. a. Parking area interior landscaping. The corners of parking lots, “islands,” and all other areas not used for parking or pedestrian or vehicular circulation shall be provided and maintained with vegetative ground cover, including turf grass, native grasses or other perennial flowering plants, vines, shrubs or trees. Such spaces may include benches, kiosks or bicycle parking. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 74   b. In parking lots containing more than 200 spaces, a landscaped area of at least 300 sf shall be provided for each twenty-five (25) spaces or fraction thereof, containing one canopy tree. The remainder shall be covered with turf grass, native grasses or other perennial flowering plants, vines or shrubs. 5.21.14. Storm Water Management. The design and development of the TND should minimize off-site storm water runoff, promote on- site filtration, and minimize the discharge of pollutants to ground and surface water. Natural topography and existing land cover should be protected/maintained to the maximum extent practicable. TNDs shall be subject to the following, in addition to any other applicable regulations: 1. Untreated, direct storm water discharges to wetlands or surface waters are not allowed. 2. Post development peak discharge rates should not exceed predevelopment peak rates. 3. Erosion and sediment controls must be implemented to remove eighty (80) percent of the average annual load of total suspended solids. 4. Redevelopment storm water management systems should improve existing conditions and meet standards to the extent practicable. 5. All treatment systems or BMPs must have operation and maintenance plans to ensure that systems function as designed. §5.22. MXD Mixed-Use District 5.22.1. Purpose and Intent. The purpose and intent of the Mixed-Use District is to allow market-driven development that is compact, diverse and walkable and that enhances character and form through appropriate design. It allows for a mix of compatible uses that are either mixed horizontally within a site or vertically within individual buildings. The Mixed-Use District prioritizes the form of development rather than the uses. This makes it possible to create special destinations with a "sense of place" and appeal. It also: 1. Encourages the development of mixed-use centers and/or buildings that combine restaurants, offices, housing, live-work spaces, civic buildings, cultural buildings and other complementary uses arranged in an environment that is convenient for customers, employees, residents and tourists; 2. Promotes new infill residential and non-residential development; 3. Promotes site design that accommodates and enhances pedestrian activity along the street, that is not dominated by parking and that reduces conflicts between pedestrians, bicycles and vehicles; 4. Provides unique places for people to live, work, shop, play and learn; and 5. Encourages appropriate transitions between higher-intensity uses and adjacent lower-density residential districts. 5.22.2. Permitted Uses. Uses are subject to Table 5.3 Permitted Uses for B-3 and MXD Districts and uses may be further restricted according to Table 5.4 Use Restrictions for B-3 and MXD Districts. 5.22.3. Area and Dimensional Regulations. Where in conflict, these standards superseded those of Article 6 Supplemental Regulations. 1. Blocks and Streets. a. Development utilizing the existing city blocks must meet the following standards for street construction: (1) Streets must have a sidewalk on both sides of the street, and it must be a minimum of ten feet in width. (2) Streets must have a landscaped buffer or planting strip with street trees between the sidewalk and the curb, where applicable. The buffer strip must be a minimum of four feet in width. b. Development that vacates existing streets and alleys must meet the following standards: (1) Dimensional platting requirements of this article supersede those of Section 4.3.1 of the City of Calera Subdivision Regulations. These regulations supersede the dimensional requirements of Section 5.2 of the City of Calera Subdivision Regulations and Article 2 of the City of Calera Public Works Manual. (2) Block perimeters are limited to 2,400 feet in total length of all sides except blocks abutting natural waterways and slopes greater than 10% are exempt. Blocks abutting county, state, or federal roadways where access is limited are exempt. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 75   (3) Streets must connect to other streets, forming a network. The city engineer is authorized to permit a deviation to this requirement, permitting a dead-end street terminating in a cul-de-sac. Cul-de-sacs must provide connectivity for bicycles and pedestrians. No cul-de-sac may exceed 300 feet to the center of the bulb. (4) Sight distance requirements, according to Article 2 Section 3 of the City of Calera Public Works Manual are not required for mixed-use zone intersections controlled by a traffic signal or stop sign. (5) Streets must have a sidewalk on both sides of the street, and it must be a minimum of ten feet in width. (6) Streets must have a landscaped buffer or planting strip with street trees between the sidewalk and the curb, where applicable. The buffer strip must be a minimum of four feet in width. (7) Streets must have parallel parking on at least one side of the street, and it must be a maximum of eight feet in width. This width supersedes Article 8. Section 3.2 and Article 2. Section 1 of the City of Calera Public Works Manual. (8) Intersection curb radii of 15 feet is required at intersections. On-street parking creates an actual turning radius of 23 feet. 2. Site Standards. The requirements of this section apply to all site plans and building permit applications. a. Setbacks. Buildings must be set back from lot boundaries according to Table 5.7 Development Standards for MXD Districts. Mixed-use districts have minimum and maximum setbacks. b. Buffers. Buffers are not required within or between mixed-use districts, except as specifically required by Table 5.7 Development Standards for MXD Districts. c. Parking location. New parking on the site must comply with the following: (1) Parking is required to be behind the building; (2) Parking must be accessed from an alley for applications larger than three acres; and (3) Open parking areas must be screened from the street by a building or a streetscreen. Streetscreens must comply with §9.4.1. d. Outdoor dining areas. Outdoor seating is permitted within any setback area and temporary seating may be permitted within rights-of-way, provided the sidewalk remains clear to a width of five feet. String lights are permitted for outdoor dining areas. 3. Building Standards. The requirements of this section apply to all building permit applications. a. Building height. Maximum building heights are regulated according to Table 5.7 Development Standards within MXD. b. Building width. Maximum building widths are regulated according to Table 5.7 Development Standards within MXD. c. Building facades. Facades facing public rights-of-way must conform to the following regulations: (1) The main building entrance must face a street; (2) One functional entry must be provided for every 80 feet of façade and must lead to habitable space; (3) Building facades facing side streets are exempt from entry frequency requirements if the side facade is under 50 feet in length; (4) At least 15% of each story of the facade must be glass. Each story is calculated independently from finish floor to finish ceiling; (5) At least 30% of the first story of commercial use buildings must be clear, un-tinted glass, except manufacturing uses must have 15% clear, un-tinted glass. Area is calculated between two feet and ten feet above the adjacent sidewalk; and (6) Building facades must use durable materials. Durable materials include brick, stucco (EIFS is not permitted within 36 inches of finished grade), heavy timber, cementitious siding, wood, slate, metal roofing, tile, metal may be used as an accent material. Vinyl is not considered a durable material. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 76   Table 5.7 Development Standards for MXD Districts Setbacks Front 0 ft minimum., 12 ft maximum Side Street 8 ft minimum, 20 ft maximum  Side 0 ft minimum and/or as required by the Building and Fire Codes Rear 3 ft minimum, no maximum Encroachments Porch, stoop, terrace 10 ft maximum Balcony, bay window 4 ft maximum Awnings May encroach right-of-way to within 2 ft of the curb Building Dimensions Maximum Height 45 ft or 3 stories Maximum width, facing street 200 ft Landscaping Buffers A 10 ft landscaped buffer abutting residential districts. Street trees A minimum of one deciduous canopy tree per 40 feet of street frontage, or fraction thereof, shall be provided and evenly spaced. May be adjusted for sign visibility. 5.22.4. Parking Standards. Refer to §8.3 Required Off-street Parking Spaces and §8.5 Off-Street Loading and the following requirements: 1. Required parking. Minimum required vehicular parking may be fulfilled in the following locations: a. Parking spaces provided on-site, or between multiple connected sites with a recorded shared use parking agreement. b. Parking spaces that are provided on-street corresponding to the lot frontages. (1) On-street parking may be restricted in proximity to intersections, driveways, fire hydrants, and other utilities. c. Parking spaces leased from a public or private parking facility. (1) A shared parking agreement with the parking facility owner is required. 2. Access. Parking access must meet the following requirements: a. Driveways are limited to twenty (20) feet in width; and b. Sites with alley access must use the alley for parking access. 3. Delivery vehicle access. Businesses requiring delivery vehicles must have a separate area for these vehicles, with no parking allowed in the required parking spaces for customers, in accordance with the requirements for specific uses set forth in §8.5 Off-Street Loading. 5.22.5. Landscaping and Screening Standards. Landscaping must be provided in accordance with the requirements for specific uses set forth in Table 5.7 Development Standards for MXD Districts and Article 9 Landscaping Regulations. When in conflict, this article supersedes §9.2 Buffers and §9.5 Design Standards for Fences. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 77   1. Fences must comply with the following requirements: a. No wall or fence will exceed six (6) feet in height for rear yards or three (3) feet in height for front yards. b. Prohibited materials include chain link, barb wire, or temporary materials. Construction sites with temporary fencing are exempt. c. Hedges in fences must be evergreen. d. Wood fences must be painted or stained. e. When erected on a lot line, all of the fence and any of its supporting structures must be contained within the lot. f. The supporting members and posts must be on the inside, and the smooth or flat faces on the outside. If two faces are used, each face must be of the same type and finish. 5.22.6. Signage. This section sets a higher standard than the City of Calera Sign Ordinance and replaces those standards when in conflict. 1. No sign will be regulated for content or type as assigned by content. Signs will only be regulated for size, structural type, number, and location. 2. Signs permitted in the MXD district are regulated by Table 5.8 MXD Mixed-Use District Sign Regulations, where the notations have the following meanings: a. “P” means the sign is permitted subject to the size restrictions. b. “X” means the sign is prohibited. 3. Awning signs and projecting signs may extend into the public right-of-way to within two (2) feet of the curb. 4. Sandwich board signs are permitted between the hours of 9 AM and 9 PM and must maintain a clear pedestrian area a minimum of five (5) feet in width. Sandwich board signs must be constructed of durable materials. Table 5.8 MXD Mixed-Use District Sign Regulations Sign Number Area Copy Height Awning 1 sloping plane & 1 valence per awning 75% of awning area 18 in. on sloping plane, 6 in. on valence Banner 1 per tenant 32 sq. ft. n/a Canopy 1 per canopy 2 sq. ft. per linear ft. 24 in. Monument 1 per street facade 48 sq. ft., 6 ft. high max. 12 in. Sandwich Board 1 per tenant 9 sq. ft. n/a Projecting 1 per tenant 6 sq. ft. 12 in. Suspended 1 per tenant 6 sq. ft. n/a Facade 1 per tenant 3 sq. ft. per linear ft. 16 in. Window 1 per window 20% of glass area 12 in. 5.22.7. Additional Regulations. 1. All outdoor storage areas shall be located behind the front building line and screened, as necessary, from public view. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 78   2. All outdoor electrical, plumbing, and mechanical equipment must be located behind the front facade or concealed from street view with a screen or wall. These facilities may not encroach into any setback. 3. Loading and service areas. Building orientation shall be such that loading and service areas do not face the street right-of- way, except in the case of double frontage lots, where such areas must be located in a rear or side yard which faces the right-of-way. All loading and service areas shall be screened from view from off the premises. 4. Artisan Manufacturing Standards. a. Outdoor storage. Any activity storing materials outdoors shall construct an opaque fence to screen the ground-level view from any public right-of-way or of any residential or retail use. Materials shall not be piled or staked higher than the opaque fence. b. Loading docks. Where the site abuts a residential or retail use, the building wall facing such lots shall not have any service door openings or loading docks oriented toward the residential or retail use. 5. Performance Standards. All manufacturing uses shall conform to the following performance standards. Any violation of these standards is a violation of the Zoning Ordinance. a. Noise or vibration. No noise or vibration, other than related to transportation activities and temporary construction work, shall be discernible without instruments at any point on a lot line of the building site. b. Radioactivity. No activity shall result in the emission of radioactivity in any amounts. c. Electrical disturbance. No activity shall cause electrical disturbance adversely affecting the operation of any equipment other than that of the creator of such disturbance. d. Inflammable or explosive materials. No inflammable or explosive materials shall be produced, used, stored, or handled unless provided at all points with adequate safety devices and procedures against hazards of explosion and all equipment and devices for fire prevention and fire-fighting approved by the Calera Fire Department. e. Air pollution. No air pollution or smoke shall be produced which is in violation of the requirements of the Alabama Department of Environmental Management. f. Glare or heat. No direct or sky-reflected glare or heat shall be produced which is discernible without instruments at any point on a lot line of the building site. g. Odorous gases. No emission of any odorous gases or matter shall occur in quantities that are discernible without instruments at any point on a lot line of the building site. h. Dust, dirt or particulate matter. No discharge into the air of any dust, dirt or particulate matter shall occur from any activity or from any products stored on the building site that is discernible without instruments at any point on a lot line of the building site. i. Liquid contaminants. No discharge into any public sewer, private sewage disposal system, stream, or into the ground of any liquid contaminants or materials of such nature or temperature which contaminates any water supply, interferes with bacterial processes and sewage treatment, or in any way causes the emission of dangerous or offensive materials shall occur. j. Adjacency. Manufacturing uses in MXD shall be subject to a 50 foot separation in place of the required setback. The separation shall be landscaped with shade trees, understory trees, and evergreen shrubbery to provide a visual and sound barrier. 5.22.8. Procedures. 1. General. Applications vary in scale and requirements from the adaptive reuse of a building to the creation of new mixed-use blocks. Table 5.9 Procedures Summary for MXD Districts specifies the applications required for each scale. The scales are described below. a. Building. The building scale refers to any changes to existing buildings or new buildings that require a building permit according to the provisions of §2.2 Building Permit Required. b. Block. The block scale involves any development that includes lot consolidations or subdivision, either minor or major. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 79   Table 5.9 Procedures Summary for MXD Districts Application Building Block Rezoning X X Master Development Plan  X Building Permit X X  2. Application Process. a. Rezoning. All applications for rezoning shall be reviewed according to the provisions in §2.10 Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance or the Zoning Map and the rezoning application requirements listed in Appendix A. b. Master Development Plan. The Master Development Plan process requires the following procedure: (1) Initial Conference. Before submitting an application, the applicant shall schedule an appointment and meet with City staff to discuss procedures for approval, submittal requirements and design standards. (2) Approval. Approval of the application for MXD by the Council shall be an approval of the Master Development Plan and the Planning Criteria of the application (the “Plan”). All approved materials become part of the zoning designation for the property. In the case of differing regulations between the master development plan and the zoning ordinance of the City of Calera, the regulations of this article apply to the development. The developer may proceed with the development of the property in accordance with the Plan, and no further approvals will be required except as set forth in §5.22.8.2.c Building Permit below. (3) Special Exceptions not Applicable. §2.8.3 Special Exception Uses shall not apply within areas having MXD designation as provided in §5.22. Special exception uses may be submitted as part of the original application and be reviewed by the Commission and approved by the Council without being heard by the ZBA. c. Building Permit. (1) General. The developer of the mixed-use building or parcel may proceed with the development of the property in accordance with the Plan and in accordance with any subdivision approval, and no further approvals will be required except as set forth in this section. If plans are submitted for the construction of improvements on any particular parcel, a Building Permit shall be approved or disapproved according to the procedure set forth in this section (2) Issuance of Permits for Permitted Principal Uses. Upon application for a Building Permit for the construction of improvements on any MXD parcel, if the Building Official shall determine that the intended use of the improvements is a "principal permitted use" within MXD, then a Building Permit shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of §2.2 Building Permit Required. d. Subdivision Plats and Roads. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require a Building Permit for approval of subdivision plats or road designs. The construction of roads within MXD require approval of preliminary and final subdivision plats and all required design drawings according to the Subdivision Regulations of the City to build roads and infrastructure and the requirements of §5.22.3 4. 3. Master Development Plan Submittal Requirements. Master Development Plan applications must include drawings clearly indicating the information specified below: a. Date, title, north arrow, graphic scale, and written scale provided on each drawing. The maximum drawing scale shall be 1” = 500’. b. Vicinity Map showing all existing subdivisions, streets and tract lines and parcels. Scale shall be 1” = 1,000’. c. Location of the development. d. Name and registration of engineer (with signature and seal). ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 80   e. Existing and proposed zoning of the site. f. Adjoining property zoning, owners and tax parcel identification numbers within 100 ft. g. Topography based on US Geological Survey or U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, maximum contours of 2 feet. h. Street names and rights-of-way widths – within 100 feet. i. Dimensioned property lines, including bearings. j. New lots – dimensioned. k. Location, dimensions and purposes of all easements. l. Location of waterways and water bodies, 100-year floodplain limits (note Flood Insurance Rate Map Panel Number), steep slopes or mined areas, bridges, ditches, and all other prominent site features. m. Location of storm drainage, storm water detention and floodplain management controls, if applicable. n. Natural features to be preserved or removed. o. Location of streets, alleys, and sidewalks – dimensioned. p. Natural or man-made open spaces, including area in acres – dimensioned. q. Location of existing or proposed utilities (public and private), including sewage disposal system and water system. r. Phasing and construction traffic. s. Grading plan and monuments. t. Sequencing and erosion and sedimentation control. u. Necessary fire hydrants and fire lanes. 4. Planning Criteria. The Master Development Plan shall include the following written statements and other matters and shall be included on site plan(s) where locations are requested: a. List of owners of the property together with disclosure of name(s) and address(es) of the applicant(s) and/or owner(s): (1) If corporation, principal officers and members of the Board of Directors; (2) If partnership, general and managing partners; (3) Any material change to the above shall be submitted within 60 days. b. Property legal description. c. A general description of the surrounding area, including current zoning and/or land uses. d. A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the applicant and how the request is consistent with all applicable provisions of the Calera Comprehensive Plan. e. If the development is to be staged, a general indication, of how the staging is to proceed, including an estimated date when construction of the site will begin. f. A statement of compliance with the standards in §5.22. g. Principal ties to the community at large with respect to transportation, water supply, utilities, sewage disposal, and locations thereof, conditional to the approval of the appropriate regulatory authority. h. A general statement as to how common open space is to be owned, used and maintained. i. Deed restrictions and/or covenants. j. A conceptual storm water management plan identifying the proposed patterns of major storm water runoff, location of storm water infiltration areas, and other significant storm water best management practices. k. A copy of any best management practices (BMP) application or certificate, stamped, signed, and dated by a professional engineer licensed by the State of Alabama. l. Description of the materials with which the parking, driveway and sidewalk areas will be covered. m. A general statement concerning any planned street/subdivision sign designs, including street, traffic and informational signs or other standards. n. Any planned interim uses. Article 5 Establishment of Districts 81   o. Typical street cross sections including streetscaping elements (sidewalks, street trees, street and pedestrian lighting, parking etc). p. A utilities plan showing underground and above ground lines and structures for sanitary sewers, electricity, gas telecommunications, etc. q. If walls and fences are proposed for the development, a plan shall be provided showing these items. 5. Building Permit Application Requirements. Building permit applications must include the information specified below. These application requirements supersede those set forth in §2.2.1 Plot Plan and §2.2.2 Site Plan Review. a. Address of the property under consideration. b. Name, signature and address of the property owner or authorized agent of the property owner. c. Date, title, north arrow, graphic scale, and written scale provided on each drawing. The maximum drawing scale shall be 1” = 50’. d. Vicinity map showing the location of the property. e. Property legal description. f. Topography. g. Existing zoning and proposed land use of the site. h. Actual shape, proportion and dimensions of the lot to be built upon. i. Use, location, size, and height of all existing and proposed structures. j. All easements and rights-of-way. k. Dimensioned setbacks of structures in compliance with §5.22.3 and Table 5.7 Development Standards l. Typical proposed elevations of buildings facing street indicating height, entries and glass in compliance with §5.22.3. m. Location of new parking in compliance with §5.22.3. n. Location and number of parking spaces in compliance with §5.22.4. o. Driveway access in compliance with §5.22.4. p. Dimensioned landscaping and screening in compliance with §5.22.5 and Table 5.7 Development Standards. q. Location, dimensions, and types of all exterior signage in compliance with §5.22.6. r. Location of necessary fire hydrants with adequate water flow. s. Deed restrictions and/or covenants – provide copies to the Zoning Administrator where necessary. 6. Amendments to the Plan. a. Intent. It is the intent of this §5.22 to provide for flexibility in the development of the property submitted for the Master Development Plan, and to approve minor changes administratively. Accordingly, additional approvals are required for major changes as defined below. b. Major change. A "major change" in the plan shall be defined as a change in the boundaries of any mixed-use district reflected on the Master Development Plan that exceed a 20% difference in land area, and any changes in the planning criteria submitted with the Master Development Plan, including a change in an approved use from one that is permitted to one that is categorized as “special exception” within the applicable MXD land use district. No segment, tract, lot or parcel of land within the approved MXD shall be processed for a change of land use districts, to other MXD land use district or conventional zoning districts unless the total MXD is submitted along with the rezoning request. Any other changes shall be considered "minor changes" and shall not require any additional approvals, other than the plat approval which shall be obtained through the typical plat approval procedures of the City. All plats for MXD will be reviewed and approved on the basis of the approved planning criteria of the MXD only. c. Approval of Major Changes. A major change in the Plan requires an application for change which shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of §5.22.8.2 Application Process. Subdivision Plats and Roads. Nothing in this §5.22 shall be construed to require a Building Permit for approval of subdivision plats or road designs. The construction of roads with the MXD development requires approval of preliminary and final subdivision plats and all required design drawings according to the City of Calera Subdivision Regulations to build roads and infrastructure and compliance with the requirements of §5.22.3 4. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 82   Article 6 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS  §6.1. Area Modification for Lots of Record The ZBA shall approve all proposed development involving non-conforming lots of record. See §4.6.2 Nonconforming Lots of Record. §6.2. General Yard Requirements This section is not applicable to the B-3 and MXD Districts. 6.2.1. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed by any structure or part thereof, and, unoccupied for storage, servicing or similar uses, except as provided for herein. 6.2.2. More than one (1) multiple dwelling, office, institutional, industrial or public building may be located upon a lot or tract of land, but such dwellings shall not encroach upon the front, side or rear yards required by the district regulations. 6.2.3. In certain cases the Building Official can reduce either the front or rear yard requirement by no more than (5) five ft in any district. A greater reduction may only be approved by the ZBA through a variance. However, the side yards must meet the requirements for the applicable district. 6.2.4. Front Yard Modifications 1. Where new development is proposed on the same block face as abutting, previously developed lots located within the same district with front yards less than required in such district, the following modifications shall apply: a. Where a building is to be erected on a parcel that is within 100 ft of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard shall be a line drawn between the closest front corners of the adjacent buildings b. Where a building is to be erected on a parcel that is within 100 ft of an existing building on one (1) side only, such building may be erected as close to the front lot line as the existing building. 2. Contextual Setbacks. The minimum front yard setback for all lots along a block face that includes multiple zoning districts shall be the most restrictive front yard setback required among the districts occurring along that block face (see Figure 6-2, Example 1). This shall be considered the contextual setback. However, in the case of a block face wherein a district with a greater setback requirement is separated from a district with a lesser setback requirement by an alley, watercourse, buffer, or similar physical transition, the contextual setback within the less restrictive district shall be half (1/2) of the setback required in the abutting district or the normally required setback of the abutting district, whichever is greater (see Figure 6-2, Example 2). These adjustments shall also apply to secondary front yards. Example 1: Where the Lots along Frontage A are in a district with more restrictive Setbacks than those Lots along Frontage B, the Setback along Frontage C for Lot 1 is subject to the more restrictive Setback, except as shown in the Example 2. Article 6 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS 81     Example 2: Where the Lots along Frontage A and those along Frontage B are separated by a public Alley ROW, the “Contextual Setback” along Frontage C for Lot 1 shall be the greater of: the normal Setback of the Applicable District for or half of the Setback in the Abutting residential district. Figure 6-2: Contextual Setbacks 3. Through lots shall provide the required front yard on both sides. 4. Standard corner lots for detached single-family and duplex dwellings in the R-2, R-2A and R-3 Districts, shall have a primary (greater) front yard setback and a secondary (lesser) front yard setback. Corner lots, in all other cases, shall provide a front yard on each street. Standard and Non-Standard Corner Lots 6.2.5. Rear Yard Modifications. Where a lot abuts an alley, one-half (1/2) of the alley width may be considered as part of the required rear yard. §6.3. Height Modification 6.3.1. Any limitation on the number of stories shall not apply to buildings used exclusively for storage purposes, with the exception of Mini-warehouses provided such buildings do not exceed the height in feet permitted in the applicable district. 6.3.2. Chimneys, cooling towers, elevators, bulkheads, fire towers, gas tanks, steeples, penthouses, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers or necessary appurtenances, where permitted, may be erected to any height not in conflict with existing of hereafter adopted ordinances of the City, except that where permitted in connection with residential uses, such structures shall be limited to a height of twenty-five (25) ft above the average height of structures permitted in that district. [See §7.13 Transmission Towers (Commercial)]  §6.4. Fences and Walls 6.4.1. No fence shall be allowed within the front yard setback in any single family residential district (see Figure 6-4). However, for corner lots, the Zoning Administrator may approve an encroachment of not more than five (5) ft into the secondary front yard  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 82   (standard corner lots) or into the front yard corresponding with the longer of the two street frontages (for non-standard corner lots). In such cases, fences shall not exceed forty-two (42) inches in height. 6.4.2. Fences in any single family residential district shall not exceed a height of six and one half (6.5) ft as measured from the topmost point of the fence to grade level at the fence line. Figure 6-4: Permitted Fence Locations 6.4.3. The following types of fences are permitted in Residential Districts: masonry walls, ornamental (iron), woven wire (chain link), wood or other man made materials designed specifically for such use, and hedges. The following type of fences are prohibited: any fence carrying electric current, any fence that utilizes spikes, nails, barb wire or other pointed materials in its construction. However, when warranted, those fence types listed as prohibited above may be permitted in the A-1 Agricultural, M-1 Light Industrial and M-2 Heavy Industrial Districts. 6.4.4. No fence of any material shall encroach into the Clear Sight Triangle where a thoroughfare intersects a driveway, alley, or another thoroughfare, as determined by the City Engineer in accordance with the Public Works Manual. No fence, hedge or any type of planting shall be placed or constructed in any location that would hinder access to fire hydrants, including ornamental or split-rail fences. 6.4.5. The following exceptions should be noted: fences used for guard railing, around depressed ramps, tops of retaining walls along driveways and adjacent to residential sidewalks, not to exceed forty-two (42) inches in height. 6.4.6. The finished side of the fence, if applicable, shall face adjoining properties or public areas. 6.4.7. For non-residential Districts, all fence construction shall be subject to site plan approval with no height or setback restriction(s) except those deemed, necessary and reasonable by the Commission unless otherwise stipulated elsewhere in this Ordinance. [See Use Specific Regulations, if applicable]  §6.5. Porches, Terraces, Balconies, Cornices and Eaves 6.5.1. Sills or ornamental features of a structure may project into any yard not to exceed six (6) inches. 6.5.2. Cornices or eaves may project into any required yard not to exceed twenty-four (24) inches, except as otherwise provided by the Building Code. 6.5.3. Terraces, unenclosed porches, underground fallout shelters or ornamental features (which are constructed as part of a single family or two-family dwelling) may project into a required yard, provided such projections shall not extend into the required front yard more than five (5) ft and shall not extend closer than twenty-five (25) ft to the rear lot line. The said terraces, porches, shelters and ornamental features (when constructed as part of a multi-family dwelling) shall not encroach more than five (5) ft into the side yards. 6.5.4. In single family and two-family residential districts, an unenclosed balcony, deck, porch or fire escape may project into a required rear yard, provided such structures be located not closer than twenty-five (25) ft from the rear property line and ten (10) ft from either side lot line. Article 6 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS 83   6.5.5. In multi-family residential districts, an unenclosed balcony, porch, deck or fire escape may project into a required rear yard for a distance not to exceed twelve (12) ft and may project into a required side yard for a distance not to exceed eight (8) ft; but, in no instances, shall the said structures be located within a required buffer. §6.6. Accessory Buildings and Structures 6.6.1. Accessory buildings or structures up to twelve (12) ft in height shall be permitted within five (5) ft of any side or rear property line. Accessory buildings above twelve (12) ft in height shall be set back one (1) additional foot for each four (4) ft in height above twelve (12) ft up to the maximum building height of the applicable district. 6.6.2. Accessory buildings and structures shall be constructed of materials compatible with other buildings in the same district to ensure that the aesthetic value and appearance of the area is retained. 6.6.3. Accessory buildings and structures and attached and detached carports and garages on residential lots shall meet the following requirements: 1. In the A-1 District, the lot coverage of detached accessory structures, in aggregate, shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the established rear yard (as measured from the rear building line of the principal structure). In the E-1 and R-1 Districts, the lot coverage of detached accessory structures, in aggregate, shall not exceed fifteen (15) percent of the established rear yard and the gross floor area shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of that of the principal building. In all other cases, the maximum floor area of detached accessory structures shall be twenty-five (25) percent of the gross floor area of the principal building. 2. Accessory buildings and structures shall not exceed the principal building height. 3. Such structures and additions shall be subject to the front yard setback of the applicable district. 4. Attached accessory buildings and structures, such as, carports and garages shall conform with the side yard setback for the applicable district. 5. When the lot abuts an alley, detached accessory structures may be closer than five (5) ft to the lot line at the alley, but not closer than twelve (12) ft to the alley centerline. 6. Accessory structures shall not be built prior to construction of the primary structure, nor shall such be used for non-residential purposes which are not normally incidental to residential use. 7. All electrical power service to accessory buildings on residential lots shall originate from the main power service at the main building and not a separate metered service. However, after review, the Zoning Administrator may approve a separate meter for utilities in the A-1 and E-1 Districts only. §6.7. Satellite Dish Antennas 6.7.1. Satellite dish antennas and other ground mounted antennas shall not be permitted in the front yard. Setbacks shall be from all lot lines, a distance equal to the height of the antenna. The setback shall be measured from the closest edge of the dish to the lot line. Satellite dishes are subject to the district’s maximum building height. 6.7.2. Satellite dish antennas shall be neutral in color and to the greatest extent possible, compatible with the appearance and character of the neighborhood in which located. 6.7.3. If the required placement prevents satisfactory reception or other problems of a unique nature, such may be referred to the ZBA for a variance. §6.8. Temporary Structures and Building Material Storage Temporary buildings may be permitted for storage of materials connected with construction projects and such buildings may also be permitted as temporary offices until such time as the construction projects are completed and permanent buildings are ready for habitation. However, no such buildings or structures shall be permitted until appropriate Building Permits have been approved and issued. §6.9. Garage or Yard Sales 6.9.1. Garage or yard sales on the same lot shall not be conducted for more than three (3) days (whether consecutive or not) during any ninety (90) day period. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 84   6.9.2. All posters and/or signs, display tables, stands, racks, etc. shall be removed immediately after such sale by the person conducting the garage or yard sale and such items shall be stored inside an enclosed building or screened from public view. §6.10. Private Swimming Pools and Tennis Courts 6.10.1. Private Swimming Pools. Where permitted, private swimming pools shall comply with the following requirements: 1. Permanent swimming pools which are wholly or partially above grade level shall be located in the rear yard of a single or two-family residential district no closer than twenty-five (25) ft from any lot line. No mechanical appurtenance shall be located within ten (10) ft of any lot line. 2. Private Swimming Pools constructed below grade level shall be: a. Located, including mechanical appurtenances, no closer than ten (10) ft from any lot line. b. Enclosed at the time of construction by a fence of not less than four (4) ft in height (measured from grade level to the highest point on the fence) as per the City’s adopted building code. Fences and gates shall be constructed of such materials so as to prevent unauthorized entry. Moreover, gates shall be provided with permanent self-latching devices which shall be locked at all times when the pool is not in use. c. Above-ground pools shall be subject to the requirements of the Standard Swimming Pool Code, 1991 and any future amendments thereto. d. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be constructed to direct the beam of light below the horizontal plane of the fixture, reflecting away from any adjacent property. Said fixtures may not extend higher than twenty-five (25) ft in height. e. Swimming pools for multi-family and commercial uses shall meet minimum standards deemed appropriate by the Commission upon review of each specific proposal. 6.10.2. Private Tennis Courts. Where permitted, all tennis courts constructed in single family or two family residential districts shall meet the following minimum standards: 1. The tennis court shall be located in the rear yard. 2. The tennis court may not be located any closer than twenty-five (25) ft from any lot line and residential structure. 3. All fences shall meet the requirements of §6.4 Fences and Walls. 4. Tennis courts for multi-family and commercial uses shall meet the standards deemed appropriate by the Commission during the review of each specific proposal, including but not limited to required buffers. 5. If lighted, all exterior lighting fixtures shall be constructed in a manner so as to direct the beam of light toward the facility itself and away from any adjacent areas. Said fixtures shall not exceed twenty-five (25) ft in height. §6.11. Ownership and Management of Common Open Spaces and Facilities For all proposals involving the creation of open spaces or facilities to be owned and maintained by a homeowner, property owner, or condominium association, the following shall apply: 6.11.1. Owner’s Association. An association representing the owners shall own the common open space or facility in perpetuity. Membership in the association shall be mandatory and automatic for all owners of the subdivision or condominium and their successors. The association shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members. The responsibility for maintaining the common open space and/or facilities located thereon shall be borne by the association. 6.11.2. Management Plan. The applicant shall submit a plan for management of open space and/or common facilities that: 1. allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the common open space/facilities including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital improvements; 2. estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the common open space/facilities and outlines the means by which such funding will be obtained or provided; 3. provides that any changes to the plan be approved by the Commission; and 4. provides for enforcement of the plan  Article 6 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS 85   6.11.3. In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the Common Open Space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the City may assume responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the association, or to the individual owners that make up the association, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all involved properties. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 86   This page intentionally left blank. Article 7 USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS 87   Article 7 USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS  §7.1. Farm 7.1.1. The minimum land area shall be ten (10) acres 7.1.2. The following farming activities shall be permitted: 1. Forage and sod crops 2. Grain and seed crops 3. Dairy animals and products 4. Livestock, such as beef cattle, swine, sheep, goats or any similar livestock; including the breeding and raising of such animals but excluding commercial meat processing operations 5. Poultry, including egg production but excluding commercial poultry processing operations 6. Nursery operations involving the raising of plants, shrubs and trees for sale and transplantation, including greenhouses and the incidental sale of items customarily associated with a nursery operation 7. Bees and apiary products 8. Fisheries, excluding commercial fish processing operations 9. Fruit and vegetables of all kinds, including the growing and harvesting of such fruit and vegetables, but excluding commercial food processing operations 7.1.3. Area and Dimensional Regulations. 1. In the A-1 Agricultural District, the minimum setback of livestock barns and commercial chicken (fowl) houses from adjoining property lines shall be 100 ft; and from street right-of-way lines shall be 300 ft; provided, however, that no livestock barn or chicken houses shall be built closer than 300 ft to the nearest then existing residence other than that of the owner. Swine, (hogs) to be housed, fed and watered not nearer than 100 ft to any adjoining property line or within 300 ft of any street right- of-way. 2. Temporary sawmills and chippers (used in connection with timber cutting operations) shall be set back at least 200 ft from any lot line. 3. Non-farm related single family residences and subdivisions are permitted, provided that the recording of lots in this district contains a minimum of half (1/2) an acre and is in complete conformance with the City subdivision regulations. Applicants should also be apprised of the fact that a two (2) acre minimum lot is required for a hobby farm, in case the intent is to utilize the lot for that purpose. 7.1.4. A booth or stall (farm stand) from which farm produce grown on the same premises and sold to the general public shall be permitted subject to the following: 1. Sales areas shall be set back from all lot lines so as to meet the district yard requirements. 2. Sales areas shall not occupy any part of a required off-street parking or loading area. 7.1.5. Incidental structures and activities commonly associated with a farm may include: barns, silos, animal pens, loading and unloading platforms, chutes and other accessory uses. §7.2. Hobby Farms 7.2.1. The minimum lot area shall be two (2) acres. 7.2.2. Unless otherwise provided for in this Ordinance, the keeping of farm animals and fowl (livestock and fowl) shall be limited to the following types: 1. Poultry (shall not include chicken houses or other facilities to house fowl), horses, donkeys and ponies are permitted. 2. The keeping of goats, sheep and swine in a hobby farm is prohibited. 7.2.3. The use shall be subject to the following setback and area requirements:  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 88   1. Farm animals shall be housed not less than 200 ft from any adjacent lot not zoned A-1 Agricultural District. 2. At least one (1) acre of lot area shall be required for each small livestock animal and a maximum of twenty (20) poultry for every 8,000 sf of lot area shall be permitted. 3. Offensive animal odors shall not be detectable at the property line. §7.3. Shopping Centers Where permitted, a shopping center shall consist of a building group that is unified in accordance with the following: 7.3.1. A site development plan shall be required which provides for: 1. An integrated parking area and vehicular loading spaces as specified in Article 8. 2. Convenient vehicular servicing of the buildings, satisfactory circulation of traffic throughout the parking areas and no undue interference with through traffic in gaining ingress and egress from the proposed site. 3. The location, size and character of all exterior signs. 4. A buffer strip if required in accordance with §9.2 Buffers. 5. Convenient and safely located pedestrian walkways. 6. A traffic analysis indicating the estimated effect of the proposed shopping center on adjacent street traffic, including volume flows to and from the proposed facility. This analysis should be prepared by a Registered Engineer. 7. A preliminary plan or engineering report providing for site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply prepared by a Registered Engineer. 8. Copy of any Deed Restrictions intended for the property upon which the shopping center is to be constructed. §7.4. Gasoline Service Stations Where permitted, Gasoline Service Stations shall observe all regulations for such structures and their uses as required by the laws of the State of Alabama, as well as provisions contained herein: 7.4.1. All permanent storage of materials, merchandise and equipment shall be within the principal building or within the setback lines and screened as required in §9.4 Screening. 7.4.2. Drains located on the premises without the approved separators in the trap shall be prohibited. Gasoline storage tasks shall be in full compliance with Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) requirements and local regulations. 7.4.3. Applicable Only To New Service Stations: 1. Minimum site of 12,000 sf 2. Frontage on a public street of at least 120 ft 3. All islands shall have a minimum of a twenty (20) ft setback from the street. 4. All driveways shall as approved by the City Engineer in accordance with the access standards of the Public Works Manual. 5. A minimum of 1,600 sf of lot area is required for each triple pump island after the first three. A lot area of 1,200 sf shall be provided for each service bay or car wash and 150 sf for a separate pay station. 7.4.4. Applicable Only To Construction of Gasoline pumps and facilities to existing establishments. The following minimum standards shall apply to the gasoline dispensing area, including pump islands and approach drives: 1. One triple island, 2,700 sf 2. One pay station and one triple island, 5,200 sf 3. A minimum of 1,600 sf of lot area shall be-provided for each additional triple pump island and a minimum of 1,200 sf of lot area shall be provided for each bay and car wash. 7.4.5. The following are prohibited uses at Gasoline Service Stations:  Article 7 USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS 89   1. Storage of vehicles on the premises for purposes other than maintenance and repair. This shall not include wrecked motor vehicles left on the premises temporarily for insurance inspection and estimates of repair. However, such vehicles shall not be parked or stored on the premises longer than seventy-two (72) hours. 2. Major vehicle repair activities as defined in §3.5.4 3. Buying or offering for sale of new or used motor vehicles 4. Any use performed inside the principal building or on the premises which is offensive or dangerous or which constitutes a nuisance to the occupants of adjacent properties by reason of smoke, fuels, dust, odor, vibrations, noise or unsightliness  §7.5. Fast Food Restaurants Where permitted, Fast Food Restaurants shall comply with the following: 7.5.1. Submission of a site development plan, which provides for: 1. A landscaping strip shall be provided along any frontages in accordance with §9.3. 2. A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report providing for the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply shall be prepared by a Registered Engineer. 3. Fixed lighting shall be arranged so as not to shine, reflect or glare onto surrounding properties or public streets. 4. The outside premises shall be cleared of all used paper, trash, refuse and other waste materials at least once every six (6) hours prior to closing. 5. Fast Food Restaurants shall not be permitted to install and maintain loud speakers or jukeboxes in a manner which allows emanating sounds to be heard outside the restaurant building. This shall not, however, include microphones and speakers necessary for ordering food. 6. Each Fast Food Restaurant shall be provided with a dumpster pad which shall be located in the rear of the establishment and screened as required in §9.4 Screening. §7.6. Hospitals Where permitted, Hospitals shall comply with the following regulations: 7.6.1. Submission of a site development plan which provides for: 1. A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report providing for site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply, prepared by a Registered Engineer 2. Where deemed necessary, by the City Engineer, a traffic analysis indicating the estimated traffic flows to and from the hospital prepared by a Registered Engineer 3. For each bed in a hospital there shall be 100 sf of outdoor open space, exclusive of required front yards, side yards, buffer areas, parking areas, loading spaces or other purposes. The said outdoor space shall be open and unobstructed from the ground upwards. §7.7. Assisted Living and Nursing Care Facilities Where permitted, Nursing Care and Assisted Living Facilities shall comply with the following requirements: 7.7.1. Submission of a site development plan which provides for: 1. A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report providing for the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewers and water supply, prepared by a Registered Engineer. 2. Where deemed necessary by the City Engineer, a traffic analysis indicating the estimated traffic flows to and from the nursing care facility prepared by a Registered Engineer. 3. For each bed in the facility there shall be 200 sf of outdoor open space, exclusive of require front yards, side yards, buffer areas, parking areas, loading spaces or other purposes. The said outdoor open space shall be open and unobstructed from the ground upwards. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 90   §7.8. Cemeteries Where permitted, Cemeteries shall comply with all applicable State regulations and the following requirements: 7.8.1. A site development plan which depicts the boundaries of the cemetery, existing zoning, adjacent land uses, topography, drainage and buffers 1. No part of a Cemetery shall be located closer than 200 ft from any residential district, nor closer than 500 ft from any hospital or nursing care facility. 2. A six (6) ft high protective wall or fence shall be constructed on all property lines, except at points of ingress and egress. Cemeteries shall be exempt from any required screening along public rights of way. The facility shall have installed gates with locks at points of ingress and egress. 3. No grave site shall be located closer than 150 ft from a water line or underground water supply. 4. Mausoleum, crematorium or any other building or structure, accessory to or incidental to a cemetery, shall not be closer than 200 ft from any property line. §7.9. Home Occupations Where permitted, Home Occupations shall comply with the following requirements: 7.9.1. The Home Occupation shall be clearly incidental to residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential character of the dwelling or adversely affect the uses permitted in the applicable district. No Home Occupation shall be permitted which might interfere with the general welfare of the surrounding residential area due to potential noise, increased traffic or any other conditions which would constitute an objectionable use of residentially zoned property. 7.9.2. Home Occupations shall be limited to: 1. an office or a business of a personal service nature. 2. Instruction of music, art, dancing and similar activities limited to two (2) students at a time. Any noise created by the activity shall not be detectable outside the premises. 7.9.3. The Home Occupation shall be confined to twenty-five (25) percent of the principal dwelling and, no outside storage shall be used in connection with the Home Occupation. In addition, no additional buildings or structures may be constructed in connection with the Home Occupation. 7.9.4. Employment shall be limited to members of the family residing in the dwelling. 7.9.5. No display of products shall be visible from the street and only articles made on the premises may be sold. 7.9.6. The activity carried on as a Home Occupation shall be limited to the hours between 7:00 A.M. and 10:00 P.M. 7.9.7. Procedure. An application for a Home Occupation Permit shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. The Building Inspector and a representative of Public Safety Department, shall be permitted to make an inspection upon receipt of the initial application; and, in addition, make inspections at any time, upon reasonable request, to enter and inspect the premises for compliance purposes. 7.9.8. The Building Inspector and/or representative of the Public Safety Department shall file with the Zoning Administrator, or ZBA when a Special Exception is required, a written report of any inspection to determine if the licensee is in compliance with this Section or, if not in compliance, to set out any area of non-compliance. 7.9.9. Signs shall be in accordance with the specifications set forth in the City Sign Regulations. §7.10. Mini-warehouses 7.10.1. Where permitted mini-warehouses shall comply with the following requirements: 1. No outdoor storage shall be permitted on the site. 2. No storage of volatile, toxic or explosive materials shall be permitted, either inside the structure(s) or on the premises. 3. Use shall be limited to storage of personal property items and the pickup and deposit of goods or property in dead storage, except a manager’s office which is clearly incidental to the principle use. The facility or site shall not be used for wholesale or  Article 7 USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS 91   retail sales operations or activities. However, this shall not include periodic auctions which are held on the premises to dispose of items which have been abandoned and/or for which the lease time has expired. 4. A minimum lot size of three (3) acres shall be required for a mini-warehouse development. 5. Screen fencing shall be installed around the perimeter of the development. Said fencing shall be a minimum of eight (8) ft in height. The points of access to the facility shall be provided with gates which shall be locked when the facility is not open for business. 6. All outdoor lighting shall be shielded to direct light and glare only onto the mini-warehouse premises and may be of sufficient intensity to discourage vandalism and theft. The said lighting and glare shall be deflected, shaded, and focused away from all adjoining property. 7. A limit of thirty (30) mini-warehouses or 15,000 sf of mini-warehouse floor area per acre is required. 7.10.2. A site development plan is required, which provides for: A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report which addresses site grading, storm drainage, water run-off, the availability of required utilities, and the identification of areas to be buffered. A buffer shall be provided as required in §9.2 Buffers. §7.11. §7.12. §7.13. Wireless Facilities 7.13.1. General Requirements. Applications for wireless facilities shall include the following: 1. A network design plan for all of the service provider’s existing and planned sites in the City and surrounding jurisdictions. The network design plan shall indicate the location of existing and proposed facilities and the service area covered by each site. 2. A qualified electrical engineer licensed by the state of Alabama shall prepare an evaluation of the radio frequency (RF) field exposure conditions of the facility demonstrating that the radiation levels generated by the facility meet Federal standards and that interference to consumer electronic products is unlikely to occur. 3. Visual representations sufficient to accurately show the appearance of the proposed facility, such as photomontages, mock- ups, and story poles. 4. The City may require a co-location agreement binding the applicant and property owner to make the facility available in the future for the installation of additional communication equipment by other wireless communication providers. 5. If the facility is abandoned in the future, the applicant shall be required to remove the wireless antennae and equipment from the site within 180 days. 6. Wireless facilities and all equipment shall be designed to be in compliance with the City noise ordinance. 7. All applications shall include a notarized letter of intent committing the antenna support structure owner or lessee on behalf of themselves and their successors in interest that the antenna support structure shall be shared with additional users if the additional user(s) agrees to meet reasonable terms and conditions of shared use. 8. No transmissions from a wireless facility shall interfere with any existing public safety communications. 7.13.2. Design Requirements. The following specific design requirements shall apply to each type of wireless facility: 1. General Design Standards. a. Except as required by the Federal Aviation Administration or Federal Communications Commission, the antenna support structure shall not be illuminated. b. No signs or advertising shall be placed upon an antenna support structure and associated equipment buildings or structures. c. All wireless facilities shall be designed structurally, electrically, and in all other respects to accommodate the user’s equipment and the equipment of at least two additional service providers. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 92   d. In considering a wireless facility for approval by Special Exception, the ZBA shall have the authority to impose conditions on the placement and/or concealment of the facility as necessary to achieve the intents of the regulations herein. 2. Building-Mounted Facilities. a. Building-mounted wireless facilities shall not exceed ten (10) feet above the building surface on which they are located. An additional one (1) foot of height may be added for every ten (10) feet the antenna is set back from the building parapet. Distributed, repeater, or microcell antenna systems mounted on buildings within non-residential districts shall conform to the height limit of the applicable zoning district. b. Building mounted antennae shall be integrated with the building design so as to be visually unobtrusive. c. Building mounted antenna equipment shall be screened from public view. 3. Structure-Mounted Facilities. Wireless facilities, including distributed, repeater and microcell antenna systems, mounted on a utility pole/structure shall be subject to the following: a. An antenna system mounted on a structure within the public right-of-way shall be limited in height to the height of that particular structure. b. Antenna systems shall be located and designed to minimize their visibility on utility poles or other structures. c. Antenna systems’ equipment shall be screened from public view. d. If proposed to be located in a district in which above-ground utilities are prohibited, the ZBA may approve such installation by Special Exception provided the structure on which it is to be mounted may be located out of public view, such as within an alley or wooded area. §7.14. Industrial Parks Where permitted, Industrial Parks shall comply with the following requirements: 7.14.1. An Industrial Park shall, for the purpose of this Ordinance, include all land forty (40) acres or more in size, subdivided and platted into two (2) or more parcels, and used or intended to be used for predominately industrial or commercial purposes of an Industrial character. 7.14.2. A site development plan shall be required for each Industrial Park which provides the following: 1. Access to an Industrial Park shall be by way of a major thoroughfare. 2. All streets within an Industrial Park shall have a minimum right-of-way width of seventy (70) ft, a maximum gradient of five (5) percent and shall conform to the City standards for commercial streets or as otherwise approved by the reviewing authority. 3. Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with Article 8. 4. Outdoor storage in an Industrial Park shall be permitted only when accessory to a permitted principal use and only when storage areas are suitably screened by either landscaping, fences or walls, and are located at least 100 ft from any property line and at least 150 ft from any street lines. Such storage areas shall not cover more than fifteen (15) percent of the site areas. The reviewing authority shall approve plans for the location and screening of all outdoor storage areas before a Building Permit shall be issued for their construction. 5. Buffers shall be provided as required in §9.2 Buffers. 6. Cul-de-sac streets shall not be permitted in Industrial Parks. Dead end streets; however, are permitted when no more than 500 ft in length, as measured from the terminal point of the dead-end street to the closest intersection, and when such terminal point is provided with a paved vehicle turnaround area having a minimum right-of-way radius of seventy (70) ft. 7. Street lighting shall be provided in accordance with the City street lighting standards with the location of street lights in conformance with Alabama Power Company recommendations. 8. The vehicular approach to an Industrial Park site from a public street shall be so designed that uncontrolled left hand turns from the street shall be eliminated or reduced either by a frontage roadway or other suitable means deemed adequate by the reviewing authority. Article 7 USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS 93   9. Sight distances at all points of ingress and egress to public streets shall not be less than l000 ft, except where a traffic signal light is installed at the entrance to or exit from the Industrial Park site unless otherwise determined by a study conducted by the City Engineer or other persons qualified in this field. 10. Where points of ingress and egress to Industrial Parks from public streets or highways having speed limits in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour are located, there shall be provided on the public thoroughfare acceleration and deceleration lanes, the length of which shall be determined in accordance with Table 7.12 or other standard adopted by the City, whichever is more restrictive:  Table 7.12 Minimum Length of Acceleration/Deceleration Lanes for Industrial Parks Speed Limit (in Miles per Hour) 30 40 50 55 Distance (in Feet) 100 200 300 350 11. A report of subsurface soil conditions shall be provided to the reviewing authority by a Registered Engineer as evidence of suitable bearing for foundations in the construction of industrial structures of a nature intended to be used within the proposed Industrial Park. 12. A preliminary plan or engineering feasibility report shall be submitted to the reviewing authority, which provides for the site grading, storm drainage, sanitary sewerage and water supply, prepared by a Registered Engineer. 13. A copy of any deed restrictions shall be provided to the Commission. §7.15. Transmission Towers (Commercial) Where permitted, the distance between the base of the tower and property lines abutting urban residential districts, public parks and roads must equal twenty (20) percent of the tower height; property lines adjacent to other uses (e.g. agricultural, industrial) require a setback equal to the rear yard setback established for the underlying zone. 7.15.1. All applicants for such towers shall submit an engineering report to both the Zoning Administrator and to the Commission, documenting all of the following: 1. Height, design and building materials selected, including pertinent technical, engineering, economic and other factors influencing the final design. 2. Total anticipated capacity of the structure, including the number and types of antennas that can be accommodated. 3. Evidence of structural integrity. 4. Failure characteristics of the tower and demonstration that the site and setbacks are of adequate size to contain debris. 5. Mitigation measures for ice and other hazards, including setbacks and de-icing equipment. 7.15.2. Where applicable, adequate parking shall be provided, along with buffers where such tower site abuts any residential zone district. Such towers shall be prohibited in any residential district. 7.15.3. In all zones permitted, a security fence, six (6) ft in height, around the tower base or along the perimeter of the site, shall be required to prevent unauthorized entry, vandalism and injuries. 7.15.4. In addition, all such structures shall be in full compliance with all applicable local, State and Federal Regulations. §7.16. Seasonal Sales Unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance, the seasonal sale of farm produce, firewood, Christmas trees and similar items shall be conducted either from motor vehicles or premises. Such items shall not be sold from permanent structures/locations and the use of structures or buildings in conjunction with said activity shall be temporary as specified by the City and subject to the City's conditions at the time a business license is issued. Nothing herein shall prohibit seasonal sales as a temporary activity on the premises of and associated with an otherwise existing use and the permanent building in which such existing use is housed. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 94   §7.17. Multiple-family Dwellings This section is not applicable to the B-3 and MXD Districts. Multiple-family developments shall comply with the area and dimensional regulations of the applicable district except as otherwise indicated herein. For the purposes of these regulations, Independent Living Facilities shall be considered a type of multi-family development. 7.17.1. Requirements applicable to all Multiple-family development types. 1. All buildings shall maintain a public entrance, accessible by public sidewalk along the street on which the building fronts. Additional entries are permitted, as necessary. 2. Parking areas for tenants are required to be placed to the side or to the rear of the building.. A sidewalk of no less than five (5) ft in width shall be provided between the building and parking area. 3. Building facades must use durable materials. Durable materials include brick, stucco (EIFS is not permitted within 36 inches of finished grade), heavy timber, wood, slate, metal, and tile roofing. Vinyl and cementitious siding may be used as an accent material and shall be limited to thirty percent (30%) of all exterior walls. The percent calculation shall be based on the total area of all exterior walls, excluding openings for windows and doors. 4. All utilities shall be placed underground; all multiple-family dwellings shall be served by public water and sewer. 5. Min. Front Yard Setback: as required by the R-4 District except when abutting a single-family dwelling or duplex or a property zoned for such uses. In such case, the minimum front yard setback for the multiple-family dwelling shall be no less than that established or required by the abutting single-family dwelling or duplex district along the same frontage. 6. Min. Side and Rear Yard Setbacks: as required by the applicable district or by §9.2 Buffers, whichever is greater 7.17.2. Requirements for Multi-Family Buildings. The following shall apply only to multiple-family developments with no more than one (1) dwelling building be constructed on the lot. 1. Entrances to individual units shall be from the interior of the building. Mailboxes and laundry rooms shall also be within the same Building. 2. Open space requirements: a. The following uses are permitted: (1) Environmental corridors/ greenways (2) Pocket parks (3) Playgrounds (4) Storm water retention/detention facilities (where incorporated into one of the above) b. No less than fifteen (15) percent of the site area shall be improved and maintained as Common Open Space for the recreational use of tenants. At least twenty-five (25) percent of the Open Space shall be dedicated, designed, and improved as a Common Open Space for the recreational use of residents. Such space shall be no less than forty (40) ft in width along its narrowest dimension. Shade must be provided for 1/3 of the area at minimum. c. Open space must be built when the final plat is approved. Amenities provided within the open space, such as benches, planters, art and water features will be maintained by the owner for the life of the project in accordance with §6.11 Ownership and Management of Common Open Spaces and Facilities. d. Common open space and other permitted uses may require additional parking, beyond the required number of parking spaces per unit as determined by the City Engineer. e. The Common Open Space shall not include steep grades, areas with poor drainage or other constraints to its recreational use. 7.17.3. Requirements for Multi-Family Complexes. The following shall apply to any multiple-family developments with more than one (1) dwelling building to be constructed on the lot. 1. Two (2) or more principal buildings shall be permitted per Lot. 2. Spacing shall be provided between buildings in accord with §5.9 R-4 District. 3. Open space requirements:  Article 7 USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS 95   a. The following uses are permitted: (1) Central squares made of pervious pavement, landscaping, or combination. (2) Plazas made of pervious pavement, landscaping, or combination. (3) Environmental Corridors/ greenways (4) Pocket parks (5) Neighborhood parks (6) Playgrounds (7) Storm water retention/detention facilities (where incorporated into one of the above) b. No less than twenty (20) percent of the site area shall be reserved as Open Space. At least twenty-five (25) percent of the Open Space shall be dedicated, designed and improved as a Common Open Space for the recreational use of residents. Such space shall be no less than forty (40) ft in width along its narrowest dimension. Shade must be provided for 1/3 of the area at minimum. c. Open space must be built when the final plat is approved. Amenities provided within the open space, such as benches, planters, art and water features will be maintained by the owner for the life of the project in accordance with §6.11 Ownership and Management of Common Open Spaces and Facilities. d. Common open space and other permitted uses may require additional parking, beyond the required number of parking spaces per unit as determined by the City Engineer. e. The Common Open Space shall not include steep grades, areas with poor drainage or other constraints to its recreational use. §7.18. Public Buildings This section is not applicable to the B-3 and MXD Districts. Area and Dimensional Regulations. The following requirements shall apply to all public buildings located in any Residential District. 1. Front yard: As required in the applicable district. 2. Rear yard: Thirty-five (35) ft 3. Side yard: Thirty-five (35) ft 4. Maximum height: Forty-five (45) ft or 3 stories 5. Maximum area: Fifty (50) percent  §7.19. Accessory Dwellings Accessory dwellings shall only be permitted as an accessory use to a permitted single-family detached dwelling. 7.19.1. Area and Dimensional Requirements. 1. Minimum lot area: Accessory dwellings shall only be permitted on lots with a minimum lot size of 8,000 sf. 2. The minimum habitable floor area shall be 300 sf and the maximum habitable floor area shall be thirty (30) percent of the gross floor area of the principal dwelling. For instance, a principal dwelling with a gross floor area of 1,500 sf shall be permitted an accessory dwelling no larger than 450 sf. 3. Setbacks. If detached from the principal dwelling, accessory dwellings shall be to the rear of the principal dwelling or within the upper floor of a detached garage or similar permitted accessory structure and shall be set back as otherwise required of accessory structures. 7.19.2. Additional Requirements. 1. Utilities shall not be separate or separately metered from that of the principal dwelling. However, in the A-1 and E-1 Districts, the ZBA, upon a recommendation by the Zoning Administrator, may approve separate meters as part of the Special Exception approval. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 96   2. No more than two (2) persons, regardless of their relationship to the owner of the principal residence, shall reside in the accessory dwelling at any time. 3. One (1) parking space, in addition to that required for the principal dwelling, shall be provided. Access to such space shall not conflict with the parking area for the principal dwelling; however, an additional driveway shall not be permitted for the accessory dwelling. 4. Accessory dwellings, whether attached to the principal structure or contained within an accessory structure, shall maintain the appearance of the principal dwelling, including colors, materials, and style, and shall not create additional entrances toward the front of the property. §7.20. Bed and Breakfasts Bed and breakfasts shall only be permitted in single-family detached dwellings, shall only be operated by the owner and resident of the dwelling, and shall comply with the following provisions: 7.20.1. Use Regulations. 1. Intensity of Use. All guest rooms shall be located within the principal structure. 2. Length of stay. The maximum length of stay shall be limited to two (2) consecutive weeks. 3. The only meal provided to guests shall be breakfast, which may be served only to registered guests. Individual guest rooms shall contain no cooking facilities, and no food preparation or cooking shall be allowed. 7.20.2. Parking. For each and every guest room as approved by the City, there shall be provided one (1) parking space, in addition to the spaces required for the residence. Such additional required parking spaces shall be screened from adjacent properties and arranged so that each space has direct access to a driveway, whether from a public street or an alley. Such parking areas shall be designed and arranged on the site so as to not detract from the character of the neighborhood. Recreational vehicle parking shall be prohibited. 7.20.3. Signs. Only one (1) non-illuminated sign, attached to the front facade, shall be allowed. Such signs shall not exceed eight (8) sf in size. 7.20.4. Building Design Standards. 1. Interior. Only minimal interior modifications shall be allowed whenever it is necessary to meet Building Code or Health Department requirements. 2. Exterior. Aside from any alterations necessary to ensure the safety of the structure, no exterior modifications shall be allowed (other than provision for a separate entrance). Approved exterior modifications should not detract from the residential character of the dwelling or the neighborhood. §7.21. Conservation Subdivision/Development 7.21.1. Intent. 1. To provide flexibility to achieve the most effective development on lands constrained by natural hazards or by environmental regulations, which may limit the amount or type of development; 2. To enhance quality of life by promoting the creation of accessible green space; 3. To protect sensitive, environmental land features to protect the health and safety of residents and neighboring property owners; 4. To reduce erosion, sedimentation, land disturbance, and removal of vegetation; 5. To encourage interaction within the community by allowing clustering of homes and orienting them closer to the street, thereby providing gathering places as focal points within the community; 6. To encourage street systems that tend to reduce traffic speeds and reliance on main arteries. 7. To promote construction of convenient walking trails, bike paths, and greenways within new developments that are connected to adjacent neighborhoods and activity centers to increase accessibility for pedestrians and bicyclists; and 8. To reduce perceived density by providing access to and views of open space. Article 7 USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS 97   7.21.2. Applicability. The Conservation Subdivision/Development option is available as a use by right for any residential development of ten (10) or more acres. The applicant shall comply with all other provisions of this Ordinance and all other applicable regulations, except those incompatible with the provisions herein. 7.21.3. Ownership of Development Site. The tract to be subdivided and/or developed may be held in single, separate, or multiple ownership. If held in multiple ownership, the site shall be developed according to a single plan with common authority and common maintenance responsibility as approved by the City Attorney. 7.21.4. Density Determination. The maximum number of lots shall be determined by dividing the total area of the proposed subdivision by the most restrictive of the following: minimum lot size of the applicable district or by regulations as determined by City and/or County Health Department standards for septic tanks, or by other density limitations, such as watershed protection requirements, as applicable to the site. In making this calculation, the following shall not be included in the total area of the parcel: 1. The 100-year floodplain; 2. Bodies of open water over 5,000 sf of contiguous area; and 3. Wetlands, as defined by the Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act. 7.21.5. Application Requirements. 1. Site Analysis Map. Concurrent with the submission of a Site Plan, the applicant shall prepare and submit a site analysis map. The purpose of the site analysis map is to ensure that important site features have been adequately identified prior to the creation of the site design, and that the proposed open space will meet the requirements herein. The preliminary Site Plan shall include the following: a. Property boundaries; b. All streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands, flood hazard boundaries, and other hydrologic features; c. All boundaries of applicable regulated buffer areas, easements, and ROWs; d. Topography at 5-ft or smaller intervals; e. All Primary and Secondary Conservation Areas labeled by type, as described in §7.19.6; f. General vegetation characteristics; g. General soil types; h. Planned location of protected Open Space; i. Existing roads and structures; and j. Potential connections with existing greenspace and trails. 2. Conservation Subdivision Plan. The developer shall prepare a conservation subdivision plan which yields no more lots than identified under §7.19.4. The conservation subdivision plan shall identify open spaces to be protected in accordance with §7.19.6 and may include lots which do not meet the size and setback requirements of the applicable district. The Conservation Subdivision Plan shall include an open space management plan, as described in §7.19.6, and shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a grading permit. 3. Instrument of Permanent Protection. An instrument of permanent protection, such as a conservation easement or permanent restrictive covenant and as described in §7.19.7, shall be placed on the open space at the time of issuance of a grading permit. 4. Other Requirements. The Applicant shall adhere to all other applicable requirements of the applicable district and the Subdivision Regulations. 7.21.6. Open Space Management Plan. For the purposes of Conservation Subdivisions, “open space” is defined as the portion of the conservation subdivision that has been set aside for permanent protection. Activities within the open space are restricted in perpetuity through the use of a legal instrument approved by the City Attorney. 1. Standards to Determine Open Space. a. The minimum restricted open space shall comprise at least twenty-five (25) percent of the gross tract area. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 98   b. The following are considered Primary Conservation Areas and are required to be included within the open space, unless the applicant demonstrates that this provision would constitute an unusual hardship and be counter to the purposes of the conservation subdivision: (1) The 100-year floodplain; (2) Riparian zones of at least seventy-five (75) ft width along all perennial and intermittent streams; (3) Slopes above twenty-five (25) percent of at least 10,000 sf contiguous area; (4) Wetlands, as defined by the Corps pursuant to the Clean Water Act; (5) Existing trails that connect the site to neighboring areas; and (6) Archaeological sites, cemeteries and burial grounds. c. The following are considered Secondary Conservation Areas and should be included within the open space to the maximum extent feasible: (1) Important historic sites; (2) Existing healthy, native forests of at least one acre contiguous area; (3) Individual existing healthy trees greater than eight (8) inches caliper; and (4) Other significant natural features and scenic viewsheds, particularly those that can be seen from public roads. d. Utility ROWs and small areas of impervious surface may be included within the protected open space but cannot be counted towards the twenty-five (25) percent minimum area requirement (exception: historic structures and existing trails may be counted). Large areas of impervious surface shall be excluded from the open space. e. At least thirty-three (33) percent of the open space shall be suitable for passive recreational use. f. At least seventy-five (75) percent of the open space shall be in a contiguous tract, which may be divided by a local street whose area shall be excluded from the open space. The open space shall adjoin any neighboring areas of open space, other protected areas, and non-protected natural areas that would be candidates for inclusion as part of a future area of protected open space. g. The open space shall be directly accessible to the largest practicable number of lots and/or buildings within the site. Non-abutting lots shall be provided with safe, convenient access to the open space. 2. Permitted Uses of Open Space: a. Conservation of natural, archeological or historical resources; b. Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game preserves, or similar conservation-oriented areas; c. Walking or bicycle trails constructed of porous paving materials; d. Passive recreation areas, such as open fields; e. Active recreation areas, provided that they are limited to no more than ten (10) percent of the total open space and are not located within Primary Conservation Areas. Active recreation areas may include impervious surfaces. Active recreation areas in excess of this limit must be located outside of the protected open space. f. Landscaped stormwater management facilities, community and individual wastewater disposal systems located on soils particularly suited to such uses. Such facilities shall be located outside of Primary Conservation Areas; g. Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility lines; h. Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes of this Section. 3. Prohibited Uses of Open Space: a. Golf courses; b. Roads, parking lots and similar impervious surfaces, except as specifically authorized in the previous subsections; c. Agricultural and forestry activities not conducted according to accepted best management practices; d. Impoundments; and e. Other activities as determined by the applicant and recorded on the legal instrument providing for permanent protection. 4. Ownership and Management of Open Space. See §6.11. Article 7 USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS 99   7.21.7. Legal Instrument for Protection of Open Space. The open space shall be protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument recorded with the deed. The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on use of the open space, including all restrictions contained in this Section, and any restrictions the applicant chooses to place on the open space. The instrument shall be one of the following: 1. A permanent conservation easement in favor of either: a. a land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-profit organization with legal authority to accept such easements. The organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence and the conveyance instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or b. a governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals compatible with the purposes of this Section, and if the entity accepting the easement is not the City, then a third right of enforcement favoring the City shall be included in the easement. 2. A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in favor of a governmental entity. 3. An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, as approved by the City Attorney. 7.21.8. Tax Assessment of Open Space. Once a legal instrument for permanent protection has been placed upon the open space, the County Tax Assessor shall be requested to reassess the open space at a lower value to reflect its more limited use. §7.22. Cottage Subdivision Cottage Subdivisions shall only be permitted on sites served by public water and sewer and in accordance with the following: 7.22.1. Number of Units. Cottage Subdivisions shall include a minimum of four (4) to a maximum of twelve (12) homes. 7.22.2. Frontage Conditions. Lots within Cottage Subdivisions are exempt from the requirement for each lot to have street frontage, as follows: 1. Each Lot shall front on and have a main entry facing the Common Open Space, except those Lots, nearest the fronting street, may front on the street and/or Common Open Space. In no case shall the rear of a unit front on a street. 2. Where a Cottage Subdivision is to be developed on an existing reverse frontage lot, the rear of cottage lots may face the street of higher classification provided that such lots are separated from the street by one of the following: 1) an Alley/Driveway and a twenty (20) ft Buffer or 2) a forty (40) ft Buffer. 7.22.3. Area and Dimensional Requirements. 1. Minimum Common Open Space: 250 sf per unit and not less than forty (40) ft in width at any point. 2. Permitted Total Floor Area per Dwelling. a. One-Story units: 800 - 1,000 sf b. Two-Story units: 1,200 – 1,400 sf 3. Maximum Height: two (2) stories 4. Minimum Building Setbacks. a. No unit shall be less than twenty (20) ft from an exterior lot line nor less than the contextual setback from any street ROW. b. No setback is required between a unit and the Common Open Space; however, no building projections may extend into or over the Common Open Space. 5. Minimum Parking Setback. Forty (40) ft from a street ROW and twenty (20) ft from exterior Lot Lines. 6. Alley Setback. Where located along an existing Alley, structures and parking shall be set back from the alley centerline no less than twelve (12) ft. Where a new alley is constructed for the Cottage Subdivision, there shall be a minimum setback of twenty (20) ft between the alley and any rear or side lot line of abutting properties. Within this setback shall be provided a natural buffer consisting of evergreen trees spaced no greater than twenty-five (25) ft on center and a continuous, evergreen hedge. Existing natural vegetation may be counted toward this requirement. 7.22.4. Ownership and Management of Open Space. See §6.11. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 100   7.22.5. Parking. Parking shall be required as per single-family detached dwellings. Parking shall be accessed by a common driveway or alley of a width necessary to accommodate turning into parking spaces. Parking spaces shall: 1. be clustered together or provided individually at the rear of each home; 2. be separated from the common area by landscaping, wall or architectural screen; and 3. be screened from streets and adjacent residential uses by landscaping, wall or architectural screen. §7.23. Day Care Facilities Day care facilities, operated within a residence, are not subject to the requirements for home occupations but shall comply with the following requirements: 7.23.1. Application of Regulations. The provisions of this Section shall apply to day care facilities providing service for part of a twenty- four (24) hour day for children under sixteen (16) years of age, for the aged, or for persons who are disabled, by persons giving care (excluding care provided by relatives). Day care facilities shall include family day care homes, group day care homes, and day care centers. This Section does not apply to baby-sitting or child day care service furnished in places of worship during religious services or related activities. 7.23.2. General Provisions. 1. State regulation. All child day care facilities shall comply with all applicable State regulations. 2. Inspections. The Building Official shall have the right to enter and inspect the premises for compliance purposes after advance notice to the property owner. 3. Hours of outside play shall be limited to between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and sunset, as defined by the National Weather Service and an outdoor play area shall be provided for child day care facilities and shall not be located in the front yard. 4. Sewage facilities. Day care facilities using, or proposing to use, an on-site sewage disposal system shall obtain a written statement from the County Health Department certifying that the system is properly designed to accommodate the use and that there are no apparent signs of system failure. 5. Fencing shall be provided to restrict children from hazardous areas, such as open drainage ditches, wells, holes, and adjacent streets. Natural or physical barriers may be used in place of fencing so long as such barriers functionally restrict children from these areas. 6. Expansion to Day Care Center. The care of more than twelve (12) individuals at a time constitutes a Day Care Center, which may require, in the case of expansion of a Family Day Care Home, to a district in which Day Care Centers are permitted. When applying for rezoning, the applicant shall submit a plan showing any existing or proposed outdoor play areas, outdoor play equipment, fencing, access drives, adjacent streets, adjacent hazardous land uses, on-site hazardous areas (as previously defined), on-lot sewage disposal facilities, parking spaces, and the drop-off circulation pattern. 7. Application and permitting procedure. Any individual proposing a family day care home shall submit an application for a Day Care Home Permit to the Building Official. If the application demonstrates compliance with this Section, the Building Official shall grant the permit. Group day care homes shall only be permitted as Special Exception Uses in accordance with §2.8 and the provisions of §7.21.3 below. 7.23.3. Family Day Care Homes and Group Day Care Homes. 1. Family Day Care Homes shall: a. only be permitted in single-family detached dwellings b. have a current State registration certificate (proof of registration renewal must be supplied to the City every two (2) years) c. have no external signage d. be limited to the care of no more than six (6) children e. not receive children for care before 7:00 am nor continue care after 7:00 pm. 2. Group Day Care Homes shall be permitted only by Special Exception and shall be limited to no more than twelve (12) individuals receiving care in accordance with applicable state regulations. Article 7 USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS 101   7.23.4. Day Care Centers. In addition to the other provisions of this Section, Day Care Centers shall comply with the following: 1. The facility shall have an approved and currently valid State license. Proof of State annual license renewal must be supplied to the City every year. 2. A fence with a minimum height of four (4) ft shall physically contain the children within the outdoor play area. Natural or physical barriers may be used in place of fencing so long as such barriers functionally contain children. 3. On corner lots, access shall only be from the street of lesser classification. 4. Play equipment shall be located at least ten (10) ft from all lot lines. 5. All pedestrian pathways shall be adequately lit for safety if utilized during non-daylight hours. Specific areas for lighting are entranceways, pedestrian access to the outdoor play areas, sidewalks, drop-off areas, and all parking lots. Such lighting shall not produce objectionable glare on adjacent properties. §7.24. Upper-story Dwellings Upper-story dwellings in mixed-use buildings shall be located on a floor level above a use of another type. In all cases, provision of emergency egress and fire separation shall comply with all requirements of the Building and Fire Codes. 7.24.1. Live-Work. Single-family dwellings in mixed-use buildings are normally intended for the occupancy of the proprietor of the associated use(s) within the building. In such cases, the dwelling unit may be accessible from within the associated use. If the dwelling is to be occupied by other than the proprietor of the associated use, the dwelling shall have an entrance separate from the associated use. 7.24.2. Multi-family Dwellings in a Mixed-Use Building. Multi-family dwelling units shall be accessible from a shared exterior entrance or one interior entrance commonly shared between the different uses housed in the upper floors of the building. Dwelling units shall not be accessible directly from another unit or use within the building. §7.25. Drive-Through Facilities This section applies to all drive-through facilities in the B-3 and MXD Districts. Drive-through facilities are subject to the following requirements: 1. Drive-through facilities and lanes must be located behind the principal building. 2. Queuing lanes must not interfere with pedestrian circulation. 3. Drive-through canopies and other structures, where present, must be constructed from the same materials as the primary building, and with a similar level or architectural quality and detailing. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 102   Article 8 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS  §8.1. Purpose of Off-street Parking and Loading Requirements The primary purpose of these provisions is to reduce traffic congestion on public streets of the City by requiring certain minimum parking and loading areas be provided off street. Further, these provisions insure safe and convenient access to and from each site, as well as safe and efficient on-site traffic circulation and encourage the design of attractive, efficient and harmonious facilities. §8.2. Off-street Parking and Loading Terms The following off-street parking and loading terms, when used in this Article, shall have the meanings defined in this Section: 8.2.1. ACCESS BOUNDARY That portion of the parking area that consists of a travel lane bounded on either side by an area that is not part of the parking area. 8.2.2. BR Bedroom or guest accommodations. 8.2.3. DU Dwelling unit. 8.2.4. EMPLOYEE The maximum number of persons employed at the facility regardless of the time period during which this occurs or whether the persons are full-time employees. The major shift may be a particular day of the week or a lunch or dinner period in the case of a restaurant. 8.2.5. GROSS LEASABLE AREA (GLA) The total floor area of a building designed for both tenant occupancy and exclusive use. GLA includes both owned and leased areas but does not include shared or common areas among tenants. Where the total floor area of a building is occupied or where a building has no shared or common area, GLA is the gross floor area measured by taking the outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or storage. 8.2.6. INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE A motor vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public streets for reasons including, but not limited to, being unlicensed, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under its own power. 8.2.7. ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE Any motor vehicle which is permanently dismantled, inoperative, or wrecked which is left at any place on a public street within the City for a period of seventy-two (72) consecutive hours. 8.2.8. LOADING AREA That area used to satisfy the requirements of this Ordinance for truck loading and unloading. 8.2.9. LOADING SPACE An off-street space or berth used for the unloading or loading of commercial vehicles. 8.2.10. OCCUPANCY LOAD The maximum number of persons which may be accommodated by the use as determined by its design or by fire code standards. 8.2.11. PARKING AISLE That portion of the parking area consisting of lanes providing access to parking spaces. 8.2.12. PARKING AREA An improved area on a lot exclusively used or designed for use as a temporary storage area for motor vehicles, containing access driveways, parking aisles and parking spaces. 8.2.13. PARKING SPACE That portion of the parking area set aside for the parking of one (1) vehicle. 8.2.14. SF Square feet 8.2.15. STACKING SPACE An off-street space for the temporary stacking of vehicles with an aisle intended to serve a drive-in teller window, take-out food window, dry cleaning/laundry pick-up or similar type activity station. §8.3. Required Off-street Parking Spaces Unless otherwise provided for, all uses shall conform with the minimum parking space requirements outlined in Table 8.3.1 and Table 8.3.4. In situations where the required number of parking spaces is not readily determinable by Table 8.3.1 or Table 8.3.4, the Zoning Administrator is authorized to determine the parking space requirements using the table as a guide. 8.3.1. Shared parking for mixed-use developments. Subject to approval by the Commission, minimum parking requirements for a mixed-use development may be reduced by calculation of shared parking requirements for the development utilizing the shared parking demand information in Table 8.3.2 and the Worksheet shown in Figure 8.3.2. These parking reductions shall not be available to lodging or residential uses unless such uses are part of a development also including non-lodging, non- residential uses. Article 8 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS 103   Parking reductions may be allowed as part of site plan approval only if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commission that a combination of the following factors or measures are proposed by the development plan, including but not limited to: 1. There are no material adverse impacts on parking conditions in the immediate vicinity. 2. The development plan mitigates vehicular traffic impacts by proposing limited access to and from public streets. 3. The development plan proposes the creation of new or upgraded sidewalks to help foster non-vehicular accessibility. 8.3.2. Off-street Parking Design Requirements 1. The minimum Parking Space dimensions shall be as shown in Table 8.3.3. 2. In large parking areas of twenty (20) or more parking spaces, up to twenty (20) percent of the Parking Spaces may be reserved for compact cars. Such spaces shall contain a minimum rectangular area of eight (8) ft width and sixteen (16) ft length. These spaces shall be conspicuously marked for compact cars only. 3. Stacking Space shall contain a minimum rectangular area of ten (10) ft in width and twenty (20) ft in length and be separated from parking aisles and spaces. 4. Handicapped Parking Spaces shall be provided and designed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Standard Building Code, 1994, Chapter 11, and as such may be amended with regard to Accessibility for the Physically Disabled and/or Handicapped. 5. Parking areas shall be designed so that vehicles may exit such areas without backing onto a public street. This requirement does not apply to parking areas that serve one (1) or two (2) dwelling units; although, backing into arterials shall be prohibited. 6. All lighting fixtures used to illuminate parking areas shall not direct lights on adjoining streets or properties. Table 8.3.1 Required Off-Street Parking Spaces by Use Agricultural Uses  Farm 1 per 1.05 employees Farm Stand 1 per 250 sf of retail floor area Farm Support Business 1 per 1.05 employees, plus 1 per company vehicle Stable 1 per 3 persons of occupancy load plus 1 per 1.05 employees Residential Uses  Accessory Dwelling 1 per DU Boarding House 1 per BR Duplex 2 per DU Garden Home 4 per DU Independent Living Facility 2 per 3 DUs plus 1 space per employee Manufactured Home 2 per Manufactured Home Multi-family Developments 1 per studio, efficiency or 1-BR unit 1.75 per 2-BR unit 2.0 per 3+ BR unit Single-family Dwelling (attached/detached) 2 per DU Townhouse 2 per DU, plus 0.5 visitor parking space per unit Institutional Uses  Assisted Living Facility 1 per 4 residents plus 1 per employee  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 104   Table 8.3.1 Required Off-Street Parking Spaces by Use Club 1 per 100 sf of non-storage and non-service floor area Community Center 1 per 300 sf of GLA Country Club 1 per 3 persons of occupancy load Day Care Center 1 per employee, plus 1 stacking or parking space per 8 persons enrolled of occupancy load Group Care Home 1 per 4 beds plus 1 per employee Hospital 1 per 2 patient beds plus 1 per emergency room bed plus 1 per employee Library 1 per 500 sf of GLA Nursing Care Facility 1 per 4 beds plus 1 per employee Place of Assembly 1 per 3 seats in the main assembly space Public Facility 1 per 300 sf of GLA Rehabilitation Facility 1 per 4 beds plus 1 per employee School, College or University 1 per 5 students plus 2 per 3 employees School, Elementary or Junior High/Middle 1 per classroom, plus either 1 per employee or 1 per 3 seats in the main assembly space (whichever is greater) Table continued on following page School, High 1 per 8 students of occupancy load, plus either 2 spaces per classroom or 1 per 3 seats in the main assembly space (whichever is greater) School, Vocational 1 per 3 students of occupancy load plus 1 per employee Commercial Uses  Animal Hospital 1 per 300 sf of GLA Appliance Store 1 per 400 sf of GLA Art Gallery 1 per 350 sf of GLA Automobile Dealership 1 per 200 sf of interior sales area plus 1 per 4,000 sf of outdoor display area plus 1 stacking space per service bay Automobile Parts Store 1 per 400 sf of GLA plus 1 per employee Automobile Rental Establishment 1 per 400 sf of GLA plus 1 per rental vehicle Automobile Repair Service 1 per employee plus 2 stacking spaces per service bay plus 1 per company vehicle Bank (no drive-thru) 1 per 250 sf of GLA  Article 8 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS 105   Table 8.3.1 Required Off-Street Parking Spaces by Use Bank (drive-thru only) 1 per 2 employees plus 3 stacking spaces per teller Bank (with drive-thru) 1 per 350 sf GLA plus 3 stacking spaces per teller Barber or Beauty Shop 2.5 per chair Bowling Alley 3.5 per bowling lane Call Center, Telemarketing Office 1 per 150 sf of GLA or 1 per employee, whichever is greater Car Wash (full service or automated) 1 per employee plus 4 stacking spaces per bay Car Wash (self- service) 3 stacking spaces per approach lane plus 2 drying spaces per stall Clinic 6 per practitioner Commercial School 1 per 3 students of occupancy load plus 1 per employee Convenience Store 1 per 200 sf of GLA Dry Cleaning Pick-Up 1 per 300 sf of GLA Funeral Home 1 per 1 employee plus 1 per 3 seats of occupancy load plus 1 per company vehicle Furniture Store 1 per 600 sf of GLA Gasoline Service Station 2 per service bay plus 1 per company vehicle plus 1 per employee plus 1 stacking space per fuel island Gas Station/ Convenience Store 1 per 300 sf of GLA plus 1 stacking space per fuel island General Retail Business Under 50,000 sf: 1 per 200 sf of GLA 50,000-99,999 sf: 1 per 250 sf of GLA 100,000+ sf: 1 per 300 sf of GLA Home Improvement Center 1 per 400 sf of GLA Hotel or Motel 1 per room plus 1 per employee Laundromat 1 per 2 washing machines Liquor Lounge (free standing) 1 per 100 sf of GLA Mini-Warehouse 5 spaces adjacent to leasing office (if any) Office, business or professional 1 per 250 sf of GLA Movie Theater 1 per 3 seats Open Air Market 1 per 500 sf of display area plus 1 per employee Outdoor Recreation Golf Course: Miniature Golf: Golf Driving Range: Other:  4 per hole 2 per tee 1 per tee 1 per 3 persons of occupancy load  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 106   Table 8.3.1 Required Off-Street Parking Spaces by Use Pool Hall 1 per table Restaurant, Carry-Out and/or Delivery 1 per employee plus 1 per 300 sf of GLA Restaurant, Drive-in 1 per ordering station plus 1 per employee Restaurant, Drive-thru 1 per 100 sf of GLA plus 4 stacking spaces per drive-thru window Restaurant, Standard 1 per 3 seats of occupancy load Shopping Center see General Retail, plus requirements for other uses Tourist Home, Bed and Breakfast 1 per guest bedroom plus 2 spaces Industrial Uses  General Industry and Manufacturing, Research Laboratory and similar uses 1 per 1 employee plus 1 per company vehicle but not less than 1 per 1,000 sf of GLA Warehouse, distribution and wholesale Business 1 per 1 employee plus 1 per company vehicle but not less than 1 per 500 sf of GLA  Article 8 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS 107   Table 8.3.2: Typical Shared Parking Demand by Use and Time of Day* Parking Demand by Use Weekday 8am-5pm Weekday 6pm-12am Weekday 12am-6am Weekend 8am-5pm Weekend 6pm-12am Weekend 12am-6am Residential 60% 100% 100% 80% 100% 100% Office 100% 20% 5% 5% 5% 5% Commercial 90% 80% 5% 100% 70% 5% Lodging 70% 100% 100% 70% 100% 100% Restaurant 70% 100% 10% 70% 100% 20% Entertainment 40% 100% 10% 80% 100% 50% Movie Theater 40% 80% 10% 80% 100% 10% Institutional (non-church) 100% 20% 5% 10% 10% 5% Institutional (church) 10% 5% 5% 100% 50% 5% * Different parking demands may be used than the typical shown here if documented in a parking demand study. Figure 8.3.2: Shared Parking Reduction Worksheet Example 1*  Shared vs. Conventional Demand Conventional parking demand A B C D E F Weekday 8am-5pm Weekday 6pm-12am Weekday 12am-6am Weekend 8am-5pm Weekend 6pm-12am Weekend 12am-6am 1- Residential 100 60 100 100 80 100 100 2 - Office 100 100 20 5 5 5 5 3 - Commercial 100 90 80 5 100 70 5 4 - Lodging 100 70 100 100 70 100 100 5 - Restaurant 100 70 100 10 70 100 20 6 - Total Parking Needed 500 390 400 220 325 375 230 Conventional Demand = 500 spaces Shared Parking Demand (greatest value from Line 6 Columns A-F) = 400 Spaces Shared Parking Reduction = 100 Spaces * Figures in italics are sample calculations only. Table 8.3.3: Parking Lot Dimensional Requirements Parking Angle Stall Width (A) Stall Length (B) Stall Depth (C) Curb Length (D) Aisle Width (E) Interlock (F) One-Way Two-Way 0 8 ft 22 ft 8 ft 22 ft 12 ft 20 ft na 30 8.5 ft 20 ft 17.4 ft 17 ft 15 ft 20 ft 3.9 ft 45 8.5 ft 20 ft 20.2 ft 12 ft 15 ft 20 ft 3.2 ft 60 9 ft 19 ft 21 ft 10.4 ft 20 ft 24 ft 2.3 ft 90 9 ft 19 ft 19 ft 9 ft 20 ft 24 ft na  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 108   Table 8.3.4 Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for B-3 and MXD Districts Residential Uses 1 per dwelling unit Lodging Uses 1 per room Retail, including food service, and Services Uses 4 spaces per 1,000 gross square feet Office Uses 2 spaces per 1,000 gross square feet Assembly Uses ¼ per each fixed seat Industrial Uses 2 spaces per 1,000 gross square feet  Article 8 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS 109    Parking Dimensions Illustration  7. Parking areas for all developments shall be so designed that sanitation, emergency and other public service vehicles can adequately and safely serve such developments without the necessity of backing unreasonable distances or making other dangerous maneuvers. Fire lanes may be required by the Fire Code. 8. All parking areas shall be surfaced with dust-free materials (asphalt or concrete). 9. Parking spaces [except those serving one (1) or two (2) dwelling units] shall be demarcated with painted lines or other markings. 10. All parking areas shall be maintained in good condition, i.e. free of pot holes, weeds, trash, refuse, etc. 11. Drainage in parking areas shall direct storm water back into the site from adjacent properties toward adequate drainage channels. Parking areas of twenty (20) or more spaces shall provide on-site storm water detention to retard the sudden discharge of high volumes of storm water into the public drainage system. The quantity and rate of runoff after development shall not exceed the quantity and rate of runoff before development, based on a twenty-five year (25) storm frequency. Drainage plans shall be subject to approval by both the Commission and the City Engineer. 8.3.3. Location of Required Parking. All required parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the use served by the parking, except as provided below: 1. Required parking within planned residential developments may be provided in common parking areas. 2. If the number of required parking spaces cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot as the served use, satellite parking may within 400 ft of the nearest public entrance to the building housing the principal use. If the use is not housed within a building, satellite parking spaces shall be located within 400 ft of the lot. A satellite parking exception requires written legal documentation that the user of such satellite spaces has the right to such spaces. 3. A joint parking area may contain required parking spaces for more than one (1) use, provided the combined number of spaces complies with the parking for all uses. If, however, the combined uses wish to make use of the same spaces at different times, the same spaces may be credited to each separate use. The applicant for a, combined use facility must present documentation of a combined parking agreement; and, if sharing the same spaces, a time schedule for allocation of such spaces. 8.3.4. Parking Prohibitions 1. The keeping of an inoperative motor vehicle in a residential district shall be within a fully enclosed building or structure or be completely screened or shielded from public view. Moreover, no inoperative motor vehicle shall be parked on any public street. 2. No vehicle exceeding 7,500 pounds gross weight shall be kept within a residential district. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 110   3. The use of off-street parking in any residential district for non-residential purposes, other than those permitted or approved by Special Exception or Conditional Use in the district, is prohibited. 4. The use of any required parking space for the storage of any motor vehicle for sale, or for any purpose other than parking is prohibited. §8.4. Access Controls 8.4.1. Proposed access points within the City shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator, Street Department Superintendent, City Engineer and shall be approved by the Commission. The proposed location, width, drainage structure, traffic conditions, site distances and resurfacing shall be addressed in the request for approval. 8.4.2. Entrances shall be held to a minimum and be located at points affording maximum sight distances, minimum grades and maximum separation. Combined or shared driveways and entrances or marginal access streets may be required for highway service uses along major thoroughfares. 8.4.3. The maximum number of and minimum spacing between entrances, for each site shall be as approved by the City Engineer in accordance with the Access Management Standards established in the Public Works Manual. 8.4.4. Entrances shall be located so that the curb openings are a minimum of five (5) ft from the nearest edge of a street drainage inlet. 8.4.5. Turning lanes or pavement widening at approaches to entrances may be required if deemed necessary by the City Engineer to provide safe turning movements. 8.4.6. Each parking area on a lot shall be physically separated from an adjoining street right-of-way by a curb or equivalent barrier in accordance with the Subdivision Regulations and Public Works Standards. §8.5. Off-Street Loading This section is not applicable to the B-3 District. 8.5.1. Required Off-Street Loading Spaces 1. Any use with a gross leasable area (GLA) of 4,000 sf or more which requires deliveries and shipments must provide off- street loading spaces in accordance with the following table. In situations where the required number of loading spaces is not readily determinable by the table, the Zoning Administrator is authorized to determine the loading space requirement, using the Table 8.5.1 as a guide. Table 8.5.1 Required Off-Street Loading Spaces GLA of Building Required Number Of Loading Spaces 6,000 - 24,999 1 25,000 - 79,999 2 80,000 - 127,999 3 128,000 - 198,999 4 199,000 - 255,999 5 256,000 - 319,999 6 320,000 - 391,999 7 Each additional 72,000 sf 1  Every public assembly use, auditorium, convention hall, exhibition hall, stadium, office building, funeral home, multi- family apartment buildings of twenty (20) or more units, restaurants and hotels of 30,000 sf or more shall provide off- street loading spaces, as shown in Table 8.5.2:  Article 8 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS 111   Table 8.5.2 Required Off-Street Loading Spaces GLA of Building Required Number Of Loading Spaces 6,000 - 29,999 1 30,000 - 44,999 2 45,000 - 119,999 3 120,000 - 197,999 4 198,000 - 290,999 5 291,000 - 389,999 6 390,000 - 488,999 7 489,000 - 587,999 8 588,000 - 689,999 9 Each additional 105,000 sf 1  Table 8.5.3 Required Off-Street Loading Spaces for the MXD District Residential Uses 1/100 units Lodging Uses 1/300 rooms 40,000 – 160,000 Square Feet All Other Uses 1 160,001 – 320,000 Square Feet All Other Uses 2 320,001 – 400,000 Square Feet All Other Uses 3 >400,000 Square Feet All Other Uses 1/180,000  8.5.2. Off-street Loading Design Standards 1. Each loading space shall have a minimum rectangular area of twelve (12) ft in width and fifty-five (55) ft in length, exclusive of driver and maneuvering space. Each space shall allow vertical clearance of fourteen (14) ft. 2. No loading space shall be located within the front yard or within five (5) ft of any property line. 3. No loading space shall be used to meet the parking space requirement, interfere with the on-site circulation of traffic, nor allow a truck to extend into any right-of-way or over any property line. 4. All lighting fixtures used to illuminate loading areas shall not direct light on adjacent streets or properties. 5. All required loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the principal use served by the spaces, unless a satellite or joint use loading facility is secured in equivalent as satellite or joint parking facilities, as provided by §8.1.4 Location of Required Parking. §8.6. Change in Parking and Loading Requirements Whenever there is an alteration of a structure, an expansion of a use or a change in use which increases the parking and loading requirements, the use shall conform with the off-street parking and loading standards of this Ordinance to the furthest practicable extent. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 112   Article 9 LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS  The intent of this Article is to require a minimum number of trees in residential areas, to establish standards for buffers required between incompatible land uses and to provide for landscaping surrounding and within vehicular areas in high traffic corridors. For the purposes of this Article, “fences” and “walls” shall have the same meaning. Landscaping shall not be planted in a manner or location which causes a hazard to vehicles entering or within the public right-of-way. §9.1. Landscaping for Dwellings The following standards shall apply to the construction of single family and two family dwellings and the placement of manufactured homes. 9.1.1. Prior to issue of a Certificate of Occupancy for a single family dwelling, two family dwelling, manufactured home, on a lot that is 100 ft or less in width, the owner shall plant at least one shade tree in the front or side yards and at least two shade trees in the rear yard. 9.1.2. Prior to issue of a Certificate of Occupancy for a single family dwelling, two family dwelling, manufactured home, on a lot that is more than 100 ft in width, the owner shall plant at least three (3) shade trees in the front or side yards and at least two shade trees in the rear yard. 9.1.3. Only shade trees listed in Table 9.1 may be counted toward the requirements of this Section. 9.1.4. Existing trees which are at least six (6) inches in diameter may be used toward meeting the requirements of Table 9.1, if the area within the drip line of the trees has been left in its natural condition and no filling, grading, excavation, or parking of vehicles or equipment, or other activity which could damage or kill the tree, has occurred within the dripline of said existing trees. §9.2. Buffers This section is not applicable to the B-3 and MXD Districts. Buffers shall be provided in accord with the requirements of Table 9.2 and as described in this §9.2. 9.2.1. Applicability. A Landscaping Plan shall be provided in accordance with §9.6. Except as otherwise provided herein, Buffers shall be required based on the developing land use and the existing, abutting use, regardless of the zoning districts in which they are located. Buffer Illustration 9.2.2. General Standards. In order to decrease incompatibility between neighboring land uses, the following standards shall apply to all required buffers: whether the buffer is comprised of planted, natural, or a combination of planted and natural vegetation. 1. Required yards, where corresponding with the buffer area, may overlap and may be counted toward a buffer width requirement. 2. 100 percent of the applicable buffer requirement shall be the responsibility of the developing land use, except when the developing use will abut an existing more intensive use established prior to the adoption of these standards and for which no buffer is in place. In this case, the approving authority may require up to fifty (50) percent of the required buffer width on the  Article 9 LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS 113   developing site. In such case, the applicant shall only be required to preserve existing vegetation within the buffer width or replace such vegetation with equivalent landscaping. 3. Any required buffer abutting a park or greenway may be reduced, if the owner dedicates land to be set aside for all or part of the required buffer width to the City for incorporation into the park or greenway. Such land dedication shall be deemed acceptable only upon approval of the Council. 4. Buffer requirements may be modified by the approving authority in certain cases as follows (See also §9.7 Modification or Waiver): a. When the proposed use will abut an existing, nonconforming use on a property that is designated for another use in the Comprehensive Plan and is zoned accordingly with said plan, the Buffer may be modified to be consistent with the projected use of the neighboring land. b. If the land use relationships between two abutting lots changes so that a lesser Buffer would be required, the width of the previously provided Buffer may be reduced accordingly. c. Up to one-half (1/2) of the width of an abutting alley may be counted toward the buffer width requirement but the landscaping density requirements shall not be reduced. d. Whenever the proposed use abuts vacant land, buffer requirements shall be based on the zoning of the abutting property or the use projected by the Comprehensive Plan, whichever requires a lesser buffer. e. Golf courses, playfields, stables, swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities; parking and other vehicular use areas; buildings, dumpsters, and outdoor storage are prohibited in required Buffers. The approving authority may permit a pedestrian access way through a required Buffer, to allow access between the abutting uses, if desired. Public utilities and storm drainage facilities may be constructed in a required buffer, provided the buffer is installed in compliance with the approved Landscaping Plan. The City may require supplemental evergreen plantings in order to mitigate the effect of land disturbance in the buffer. 9.2.3. Design Standards 1. Prior to occupancy of the building or premises, the buffer shall provide a visually impervious barrier, uniformly dense at all heights from the ground, and a minimum of five (5) ft above grade throughout the entire length of the buffer. Within one year after installation the buffer shall be at least six (6) ft above grade throughout the entire length of the buffer. The buffer shall be comprised of vegetation which meets or exceeds these minimum standards throughout the calendar year. 2. In the case of planted buffers, the entire surface area of the buffer shall be planted as prescribed in this Section. Only evergreen plant materials may be planted within a required buffer. Trees shall be provided as required in accordance with Table 9.2. 3. The required Buffer width may be reduced as provided in Table 9.2 when a fence is provided that is 5-7 ft tall and that meets the requirements in §9.5. However, this shall not waive or reduce planting requirements. §9.3. Landscaping for Vehicular Areas This section is not applicable to the B-3 District. 9.3.1. Applicability. These regulations apply to any off-street parking area containing more than forty (40) parking spaces and the vehicular areas of any developments, which are located within or visible from a high traffic corridor, as defined by this Ordinance. For the purposes of this section, vehicular areas shall include: off-street parking and loading; vehicular storage, display, maneuvering and washing; and the dispensing of motor fuels. 9.3.2. A Landscaping Plan shall be required as part of every zoning application, Special Exception or Conditional Use application, Variance application and Building Permit application for new construction which includes vehicular areas as herein described. This Section shall apply to new vehicular areas for all uses, except single family dwellings, two family dwellings and manufactured homes. If the size of an existing vehicular area is increased by ten (10) percent or more, the new vehicular area shall be made to comply with the requirements of this Section; except that landscaping in the existing vehicular area shall be exempt from the irrigation requirement. 9.3.3. Interior Vehicular Area Landscaping Requirements 1. Each vehicular area shall have interior landscaping covering not less than five (5) percent of the total vehicular area. Such landscaping shall be in addition to all planting within six (6) ft of a building. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 114   2. In addition, a five (5) ft wide landscaping strip shall be provided along the parking lot perimeter and shall be planted with evergreen shrubs ( and shade trees (1 per 40 linear ft). Where this overlaps or conflicts with other landscaping requirements, the greater requirement shall govern. 3. The primary landscaping materials used in vehicular areas shall be trees, which comply with the standards of Table 9.1. Shrubs and other planting materials may be used to compliment the tree planting, but shall not be the sole component of the landscaping. 4. The interior dimensions of any planting area shall be sufficient to protect all landscaping materials planted therein. 9.3.4. Perimeter Landscaping Requirements adjacent to Public Rights-of-Way 1. Only trees listed in Table 9.1 shall be counted toward these requirements. 2. A landscaped strip at least ten (10) ft wide, which shall not include a sidewalk or trail, shall be located between the vehicular area and the public right-of-way, except where driveways cross the property line. The width may be reduced to five (5) ft when a fence, meeting the requirements of §9.5 and that is between 2.5-3.5 ft tall, is provided. 3. The entire width of the strip shall be planted with a double staggered row of shrubs. The shrubs shall be evergreen and a minimum of thirty (30) inches high at installation. 4. At least one tree for every thirty (30) linear ft of required landscape strip, or portion thereof, shall be planted in the landscape strip. Table 9.1 Tree List Only the following trees may be planted to comply with the requirements of §9.1 and §9.3. All such trees shall be at least two and one half (2 and ½) inches in diameter, measured five (5) feet above the root ball of the tree. Residential Trees Note: The following includes only a limited number of acceptable tree species that may be used toward the requirements of §9.1. Many other types of trees may be appropriate in residential environments and may be selected. Willow Oak Quercus phellos Zelkova Zelkova serrata Chinese Elm Ulmus parvifolia American Elm Ulmus americana ‘Liberty’ Gingko Ginko biloba Shumard Oak Quercus schumardii Green Ash Fraxinus pennsylvanica American Holly Ilex opaca Bigleaf Magnolia Magnolia macrophylla Okame Cherry Prunus x incamp Trident Maple Acer buergerianum Chinese Pistache Pistacia chinesis Eastern Redbud Cercis canadensis Crape Myrtle Laegerstroemia indica Bradford Pear Pyrus calleryana 'Bradford' Saucer Magnolia Magnolia x soulangiana Flowering Dogwood Cornus florida River Birch Betula nigra Tulip Poplar Liriodendron tulipifera Trees for Vehicular Areas Note: The following are those tree species approved for planting in and around vehicular areas as required by §9.3. Canopy trees should be used wherever possible to maximize shade opportunities. Understory trees are primarily for ornamental purposes. Canopy Trees Willow Oak Quercus phellos Zelkova Zelkova serrata Chinese Elm Ulmus parvifolia American Elm Ulmus americana ‘Liberty’ Gingko Ginko biloba Shumard Oak Quercus schumardii Green Ash Fraxinus pennsylvanica American Holly Ilex opaca Bigleaf Magnolia Magnolia macrophylla  Understory Trees Okame Cherry Prunus x incamp Trident Maple Acer buergerianum Chinese Pistache Pistacia chinesis Eastern Redbud Cercis canadensis Crape Myrtle Laegerstroemia indica Saucer Magnolia Magnolia x soulangiana Flowering Dogwood Cornus florida River Birch Betula nigra  Article 9 LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS 115   Table 9.2 Buffer Requirements By Use   Developing Land Use Existing Abutting Uses or Zoning Single-family Multi- family  Lodging Institutional Business Parks & green- ways detached attached low/medium/high Residential and Lodging Buffer Class Required Detached, single-family na na na na na na na Attached, single-family A na na na na na na Multi-family B A na na na na na Lodging B B A na na na na Manufactured home/RV parks B B B B A B A Institutional Low intensity A A na na na na na na na Medium intensity A A A na na na na na A High intensity B B B A A na na na A Business/Commercial Offices up to 50,000 sq. ft. A A A na A na na na A Offices greater than 50,000 sq. ft. B B B A B A na na A Amusement; outdoor entertainment B B B A B A na na A Retail, shopping centers, and restaurants up to 50,000 sq. ft. B B A A A A na na A Retail, shopping centers, and restaurants greater than 50,000 sq. ft.  B  B  B  A  B  A  na  na  A Heavy commercial, including repair, contractor and automotive uses B B B A B A na na A Industry Warehousing, storage, telecommunications towers and public utility facilities  C  C  C  C  C  B  B  A  B Other industrial uses C C C C C C C B B Planting Requirements by Buffer Class  Buffer Class Width Required trees per 100 lf With fence/wall Without fence/wall A 18 ft 25 ft 8 B 25 ft 35 ft 10 C 35 ft 45 ft 12   §9.4. Screening Screening is intended to provide visual separation of certain uses from public areas and adjoining properties. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 116   9.4.1. Applicability. For all multi-family, non-residential and mixed use developments, the following shall require Screening: 1. Garbage collection, recycling and refuse handling areas. 2. Maintenance areas or utility structures associated with a building or development. 3. Water meters, gas meters, electric meters and air conditioners/mechanical units. 4. Loading areas. 5. Outside runs for pet services, animal shelters, and kennels. 6. Outdoor storage of materials, stock, equipment, and vehicles (such as those stored for repair). 7. Any other uses for which screening may be required by the reviewing authority. 8. Open parking areas must be screened from the street by a building or streetscreen. Screening Illustration 9.4.2. Safety Provisions. Screening shall not impede or divert the flow of water in any drainage way and shall not block access to any above-ground, pad-mounted transformer and shall provide the minimum clear distance required by the utility company. 9.4.3. Design Requirements. The design of screening shall be in accord with the following and as approved by the reviewing authority: 1. Location on site should be the first consideration in screening the uses listed in §9.4.1 above. The reviewing authority may lessen screening requirements when the location of the use to be screened reduces its visibility or other impact to the public and neighboring properties. 2. The method of screening, including height and materials, shall be that which is sufficient to visually screen the use. The minimum height needed is preferred. 3. Fences, berms, or landscaping used for other purposes, but that are proposed as part of a required screen and that meet the requirements of this Section, may count toward these requirements. 4. Uses requiring screening, when co-located, may be screened together. 5. Uses that produce objectionable noise or odors shall be located so as to minimize such impacts to the public and abutting properties. 6. Shrubs shall be evergreen and spaced no more than five (5) ft on center. If used in combination with a fence, shrubs may be deciduous and may be spaced no more than eight (8) ft on center. 7. Trees shall be evergreen and, when used in the absence of a fence, should have a low understory and/or be used together with shrubs to provide a continuous, opaque screen. 8. A streetscreen must have openings no wider than the driveway or sidewalk plus a setback of 18 inches at driveway intersections. Article 9 LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS 117   9. Streetscreen materials are limited to the following: brick, stone, stucco over masonry, iron, steel or aluminum that appears to be iron. Non-opaque streetscreens require evergreen planting behind to provide opacity. 9.4.4. Requirements for specific uses. 1. Refuse and recycling containers shall not be located forward of the front building line. Such containers shall be screened by a combination of opaque fence and plant material on three (3) sides. Opaque gates, designed to complement the screen, shall be installed for access. The fence shall be at least two (2) ft taller than the container. 2. For restaurants, enclosures shall be sized, as needed, to accommodate the storage of grease containers. 3. Mechanical equipment on roofs or on site shall be screened so as to not be visible from public streets or adjacent properties. The screening of building-mounted mechanical equipment shall be an integral component of the building design. Mechanical equipment installed on site shall be adequately screened by plant materials and/or fences to blend in with site landscaping. 4. Outdoor storage, where permitted, shall be screened to a height of six (6) ft or two (2) ft taller than the material or equipment to be screened, whichever is greater. 5. Service areas, loading docks, work yards, and similar uses should be located to minimize their visibility to the public and to any abutting properties to which such functions would be objectionable. Where their location is insufficient to effectively screen the use, required screening shall be at least six (6) ft in height. §9.5. Design Standards for Fences Fences used as a part of any required Buffer, Screen, or Perimeter Landscaping shall comply with the following: 9.5.1. Fences shall be of masonry, durable wood, or a combination thereof. Untreated wood, chain-link, plastic or wire shall not be permitted. No more than twenty-five (25) percent of the fence surface shall be left open. The finished side of the fence shall face abutting property. 9.5.2. Required shrubs and trees shall be planted on the exterior side of the fence. 9.5.3. If a fence is longer than 100 ft in one direction, it shall have columns of wood or masonry which project outward from the fence surface. Such columns shall be spaced no greater than fifty (50) ft on center. §9.6. Landscaping Plan A Landscaping Plan shall be required as part of every zoning application, Special Exception or Conditional Use application, Variance application and Building Permit application for new construction which requires a buffer, screening and/or landscaping in vehicular areas. The Landscape Plan shall be drawn to a scale no larger than one inch equals fifty (50) ft and shall contain the following information: 9.6.1. The location and dimension of all areas proposed for landscaping and planting, including a description of the proposed plant materials. 9.6.2. All dimensions and distances, property lines, easements, rights-of-way and buffers. 9.6.3. Existing and proposed buildings and structures, including signs, trash and garbage containers, utility and drainage structures. 9.6.4. Existing and proposed buildings and structures on the subject property and on adjacent property affected by the required buffer. When the finished floor elevation of buildings on the subject property differs by ten (10) ft or more from the finished floor elevation of the buildings on the adjacent property affected by the buffer, the plan shall include a cross section which accurately shows the comparative elevations of the buildings in relationship to the buffer. 9.6.5. Bodies of water including water detention and retention areas. 9.6.6. Driveways, vehicular areas, existing and proposed parking spaces, access aisles and other vehicular areas. 9.6.7. Sufficient information and detail to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Section. §9.7. Modification or Waiver The planting requirements of this Article shall be applied equally to similarly classified and situated properties, but may be modified or waived altogether in certain cases where a building site is subject to any of the following circumstances determined by the Planning Commission:  ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 118   9.7.1. Existing natural vegetation, which meets, in whole or in part, buffer or screening requirements, may be applied toward the requirements of this Article. Where natural vegetation (trees and/or shrubs) exist on a piece of property, when application is made for a Building Permit, such natural vegetation shall be left undisturbed until the Zoning Administrator has evaluated it with regard to its suitability as a buffer or screen, as applicable. The Zoning Administrator may require that the developer retain a portion of the natural vegetation, where such already exists, rather than require a man-made planting strip or other methods of buffering or screening. However, additional planting may be required to achieve the requirement. 9.7.2. Where impending development of adjacent property would make these standards unreasonable or impractical. 9.7.3. Where, after inspection by the City, it is found that the view from adjoining properties is blocked by a change in grade or other natural or man-made features. 9.7.4. Where planting cannot, in the professional opinion of an expert, be expected to thrive due to poor soil conditions, intense shade or similar conditions. 9.7.5. In special cases where the side and/or rear yards may be inadequate to meet the landscaping requirements, the Planning Commission shall determine, based upon site plan review or other pertinent information requested, an alternative method of buffering, screening or other landscaping as applicable. §9.8. Maintenance and Irrigation 9.8.1. All plantings required in this Article shall be permanently maintained in good growing condition by the party or parties required to provide such plantings and, when necessary, replaced with new growth. All fencing shall be permanently maintained in good condition and whenever necessary, repaired or replaced by the party or parties required to provide such fence. 9.8.2. All plant material shall be tended and maintained in a healthy growing condition, replaced when dead and kept free of weeds, refuse and debris. 9.8.3. All landscaping required in this Article 9 shall be drought-tolerant, native species or shall be irrigated by an automatic irrigation system. Article 9 LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS 119   This page intentionally left blank. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama 120   Article 10 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS (AMENDMENTS)  §10.1. Interpretation of Uses In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Ordinance shall be considered minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, conveniences, order, prosperity and general welfare of the City. Where other Ordinances or regulations which may be adopted hereafter impose greater restrictions than those specified herein, compliance with such other ordinances or regulations is mandatory. This Ordinance shall not lower the restriction of plats, deeds or private contracts, if such are greater than the provisions of this Ordinance. §10.2. Savings Clause If any Section, clause, provision or portion of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other Section, clause, provision or portion of this Ordinance which is not in and of itself invalid or unconstitutional. §10.3. Amendment to Existing Ordinance These amendments to the zoning ordinance heretofore adopted and therefore the zoning ordinance in its updated form shall repeal all previous zoning ordinances; provided, however, that nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to modify or in any manner permit, extend or enlarge any non-conforming property or improvement at the time of adoption of this Ordinance, but such non-conforming use shall continue to be subject to all restrictions and limitations existing at the time of adoption of this amendment related to such non-conforming use. No nonconforming use, existing at the time of amendment of this Ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended, or expanded, unless such use is changed to a use which will conform to the regulations of the district in which such property is located. §10.4. Effective Date This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its adoption, approval and publication, as provided by law. AMENDED AND APPROVED this 1st day of November 2010. Article 10 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS 121   This page intentionally left blank. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama p. A-122   APPENDIX A Application Requirements  PLOT PLAN REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS  1. The actual shape, proportion and dimensions of the lot to be built upon 2. The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures to be erected, altered or moved and of any buildings or other structures already on the lot, both above and below existing grade 3. The existing and intended use of all buildings or other structures 4. The setback and side lines of buildings on adjoining lots and such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as required for determining conformance with the provision of this Ordinance. 5. A plan showing the location of necessary fire hydrants with adequate water flow. 6. Where applicable, the applicant shall provide the Zoning Administrator with copies of all deed restrictions and/or covenants which pertain to the subject property. SITE PLAN APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS  1. Cover Sheet with: a. Name and location of the development; name, address and signature of the owner; and, name, address and seal of the engineer b. Vicinity map c. Existing zoning and proposed land use of the site d. Date, scale, north arrow and number of streets 2. Site layout, including: property dimensions, rights-of-way, easements, topography, location and dimensions of all buildings(existing and proposed), setbacks, driveway access, off-street parking and loading, traffic circulation, screening, buffer yards and landscaping. 3. Drainage; paving; grading and excavation; erosion and sedimentation; and storm water detention and floodplain management controls 4. Public and private utilities, including sewage disposal system and water system 5. Fire lanes and hydrants  VARIANCE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS  1. Name, signature and address of the property owner and agent of the property owner, if any 2. Address of the property under consideration 3. Zoning and land use of the property under consideration 4. Justification for the variance in accordance with ALL of the criteria in §2.8.3.2a. 5. A vicinity map showing the location of the property 6. A plot plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries and proposed development layout with the variance noted or highlighted 7. The names and addresses of adjacent property owners, as shown on the most recent records of the Shelby County Tax Assessor's Office 8. An Administrative Fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) is required from the applicant or agent at the time the application for a variance is made, plus the cost incurred in notification and publication  SPECIAL EXCEPTION APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS  1. Name, address and signature of the property owner and agent of the property owner, if any 2. Address of the property under consideration 3. Existing zoning and land use of the property under consideration 4. Proposed use by Special Exception 5. A vicinity map showing the location of the property 6. A plot plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries and the proposed development layout  APPENDIX 123   7. the names and addresses of adjacent property owners, as shown on the most recent records of the Shelby County Tax Assessor's office 8. An Administrative Fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) is required from the applicant or agent at the time the application is made, plus the cost incurred in the required notification and publication. REZONING APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS  1. Name, signature and address of the property owner and agent of the property owner, if any 2. Address and legal description of the property under consideration, accompanied, by a copy of the applicable tax maps clearly identifying the property subject to the rezoning request 3. Present and proposed zoning and land use of the property under consideration 4. Reason for the rezoning request 5. Availability of required utilities and methods of storm water drainage and traffic control 6. A vicinity map, drawn to scale, showing the size and location of the subject property 7. A site plan, drawn to scale and dimensioned, showing the property boundaries, public rights-of-way and the proposed use and development layout, including topography 8. The names and addresses of all adjacent property owners, as shown on the most recent records of the Shelby County Tax Assessor's Office 9. An Administrative fee of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00), plus the cost incurred in the notification by certified mail and publication  CONDITIONAL USE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS  1. Name, address and signature of the property owner and agent of the property owner, if any 2. Address of the property under consideration 3. Existing zoning and land use of the property under consideration 4. Proposed use by Conditional Use 5. A vicinity map showing the location of the property 6. Site layout, including: property dimensions, rights-of-way, easements, topography, location and dimensions of all buildings(existing and proposed), setbacks, driveway access, off-street parking and loading, traffic circulation, screening, buffer yards and landscaping. 7. the names and addresses of adjacent property owners, as shown on the most recent records of the County Tax Assessor's office 8. An Administrative Fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) is required from the applicant or agent at the time the application is made, plus the cost incurred in the required notification and publication. ZONING ORDINANCE City of Calera, Alabama p. B-124   Zoning District Area and Dimensional Regulations Refer to District Regulations for specific requirements. Front Yard Secondary Front Yard Rear Yard  Side Yard Min. Lot Width Min. Lot Area/ Max. Density Max. Bldg. Height  Min. Livable Floor Area E-1 §5.1  75 ft1  na  75 ft  25 ft  150 ft  1.0 acre  35 ft or 2-1/2 stories 1 story: 2,400 ft More than one story: 1,800 sf on first floor, 2,800 ft total R-1 §5.2  50 ft1  na  50 ft  15 ft  100 ft  20,000 sf  35 ft or 2-1/2 stories 1 story: 2,000 ft More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,400 ft total R-2 §5.3  35 ft  20 ft  40 ft  10 ft  75 ft  15,000 sf  35 ft or 2-1/2 stories 1 story: 1,600 ft More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 ft total R-2A §5.4  35 ft  20 ft  30 ft  10 ft  75 ft  10,000 sf  35 ft or 2-1/2 stories 1 story: 1,600 ft More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 ft total R-3 §5.5  30 ft  20 ft  30 ft  10 ft  70 ft  10,000 sf  35 ft or 2-1/2 stories 1 story: 1,500 ft More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 ft total R-3A §5.6 35 ft na 35 ft 10 ft 60 ft 7,500 sf2 35 ft or 2-1/2 stories 1,200 sf R-3B §5.7 35 ft na 35 ft 20 ft 60 ft3 7,500 sf na 1,200 sf R-4 §5.8   15 ft minimum, 35 ft maximum   na   3 ft minimum, 30 ft maximum  None, except as required by the Building and Fire Code, and 20 ft between buildings   200 ft   10 du/acre   3 stories Two-family dwellings: same as R-2 District; Multiple dwellings: 800 sf per dwelling; Independent living facility: 500 sf per dwelling unit; No minimum floor area for assisted living facility RG §5.9 25 ft minimum, 35 ft maximum  15 ft  25 ft 10 ft one side, 20 ft to accommodate a driveway  70 ft  7,000 sf  35 ft or 2-1/2 stories 1 story: 1,500 ft More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 ft total  APPENDIX 125   RT §5.10 10 ft if rear- loaded; 25 ft minimum and 35 ft maximum if front- loaded   na   25 ft   0 ft for interior units and 10 ft for end units   24 ft   8 du/acre   35 ft or 2-1/2 stories  1 story: 1,500 ft More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 ft total A-1 §5.11  50 ft  na  50 ft  15 ft  na  3 acres  35 ft or 2-1/2 stories 1 story: 1,500 ft More than one story: 1,500 sf on first floor, 2,200 ft total O&I §5.12 35 ft 4 na 15-35 ft 0-35 ft na na 45 ft or 4 stories na B-1 §5.13 20 ft 4, 5 na 15-20 ft 0 ft na na 35 ft or 2 stories na B-2 §5.14 35 ft na 15-35 ft 0-35 ft na na 65 ft or 5 stories na B-3 §5.15 10 ft na 5 ft 0 ft na na 65 ft or 5 stories na M-1 §5.16 75 ft na 15-35 ft 0-35 ft na na 45 ft or 3 stories na M-2 §5.17  6 na  6  6 na na na na M-3 §5.18  6 na  6  6 na na na na M-3 §5.22 12 ft na 3 ft and no max. 0 ft Na na 45 ft or 3 stories na 1 Undedicated Road: Sixty (60) ft from centerline 2 15,000 sf if septic tanks and field lines are required 3 Measured at front lot line 4 10 ft if parking is to side or rear, see District Regulations 5 Corner lots shall be set back same from each street 6 Subject to Site Plan approval 7 Buildings must be within 20 ft of the back of sidewalk. 1  UPDATED October 7, 2008 1986-26  ZONING ORDINANCE CITY OF EUFAULA, ALABAMA  AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING COMPREHENSIVE ZONING REGULATIONS FOR THE CITY OF EUFAULA, ALABAMA, AND PROVIDING FOR THE ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND AMENDMENT THEREOF, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY CODE OF ALABAMA 1975, SEC. 11- 52-1 et. seq. WHEREAS, Code of Alabama 1975, Sec. 11-52-1, et. seq. empowers the City of Eufaula to enact a zoning ordinance and to provide for its administration, enforcement, and amendment, and   WHEREAS, the City Council deems it necessary, for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the City to enact such an ordinance, and   WHEREAS, the City Council has appointed the Planning Commission to recommend the boundaries of the various original districts and appropriate regulations to be enforced therein, and   WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has divided the City into districts and has prepared regulations pertaining to such districts in accordance with a comprehensive plan, and designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers, to promote health and the general welfare, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements, and   WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has given reasonable consideration, among other things, to the character of the districts and their peculiar suitability for particular uses with a view to conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the municipality, and   WHEREAS, the City Council has given due public notice of hearings relating to zoning districts, regulations, and restrictions and has held such public hearings, and   WHEREAS, all requirements of Code of Alabama 1975, Sec. 11-52-1 et. seq., with regard to the preparation of the report of the Planning Commission and subsequent action of the City Council have been met,   NOW THEREFORE, THE PUBLIC WELFARE REQUIRING IT, be it ordained by the City Council of Eufaula, Alabama, as follows:   2  HELP FOR THE CONFUSED READER       ABOUT           THEN 1. The uses allowed on your property  Find out what district the property is in and turn to that zone in Article 5 2. The yard requirements for your property See the appropriate district in Article 5 3. Parking requirements See Article 6 for the number, size and design of spaces 4. Signs See the appropriate zoning district for the types of signs allowed and then see Article 6 for general rules about signs 5. Accessory uses and buildings See the appropriate zoning in district in Article 5 for requirements and then Section 6.15 for other regulations 6. Zoning regulations which apply to all property See Article 6 - General and supplemental regulations 7. Request a change in the zoning district your property is in See Article 9 for Amendment procedures 8. Special development schemes such as a PUD, Flood Hazard areas, etc. and their review procedures See Article 12 9. Where mobile homes are allowed See Sections 5.21, 5.26, 5.27, and 12.4  3   TABLE OF CONTENTS Article/Section   Article One. Title, Short Title, Official Zoning Map Section 1.1 Title Section 1.2 Short Title Section 1.3 Official Zoning Map Section 1.4 Replacement of Official Zoning Map Article Two. Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries Section 2.1 Boundary Interpretations Article Three. Application of District Regulations Section 3.1 Zoning Affects Every Building and Use Article Four. Nonconforming Lots, Nonconforming Uses of Land, Nonconforming Structures, Nonconforming Uses of Structures and Premises, and Nonconforming Characteristics of Use Section 4.1 Continuance of Nonconforming Uses Section 4.2 Nonconforming Lots of Record Section 4.3 Nonconforming Uses of Land Section 4.4 Nonconforming Structures Section 4.5 Nonconforming Uses of Structures or of Structures and Premises in  Combination Section 4.6 Repairs and Maintenance of Nonconforming Structures Section 4.7 Uses Under Special Exception Provisions not Nonconforming Uses Article Five. Classification of Schedule of District Requirements Section 5.1 Classification of District Section 5.2 Schedule of District Regulations Article Six. General and Supplemental District Regulations Section 6.1 General Provisions Section 6.2 Supplemental Provisions Section 6.3 Special Use Permits Section 6.4 Reserved Section 6.5 Site Plan Review and Approval Section 6.6 Day Care Homes Section 1, Article Six Section 6.61 Minimum Landscape Requirement Section 6.7 Sign Regulations Section 6.8 Large-Scale Retail Article Seven. Administration and Enforcement Section 7.1 Administration Section 7.2 Enforcement  Page 5 5 5 5 5 7 7  9 9  11  11 11 12 12 13  14 15  17 17 17  45 45 45 53 55 55 58 58 58 68 86  93 93 93  4  Article/Section Article Eight. Board of Adjustment Section 8.1 Establishment and Membership of the Board of Adjustment Section 8.2 Meetings, Procedures and Records Section 8.3 Appeals Section 8.4 Hearing Section 8.5 Duties and Powers Section 8.6 Appeals from Action of the Board of Adjustment Section 8.7 Conflicting Regulations Article Nine. Amendment Section 9.1 Zoning Amendment Petition Section 9.2 Planning Commission Review Section 9.3 Public Hearing on Proposed Amendment Section 9.4 Time Limit Section 9.5 Filing Fee Article 10. Legal Status Provisions Section 10.1 Interpretation Section 10.2 Conflict with Other Ordinances Section 10.3 Validity Section 10.4 Penalties and Remedies Article 11. Definitions Section 11.1 General Terms Section 11.2 Definition of Words and Phrases Article Twelve. Special Review Procedures Section 12.1 Planned Unit Developments Section 12.2 Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone Section 12.3 Flood Hazard Areas Section 12.4 Transitional Areas of Placement of Mobile Homes Section 12.5 Airport Hazard Areas Article Thirteen. Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances and Effective Date Section 13.1 Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances Section 13.2 Effective Date  Page  97 97 97 98 98 98 102 102  103 103 103 103 103 103  105 105 105 105 105  107 107 107  115 115 124 125 127 128  131 131 131  5  ARTICLE ONE TITLE, SHORT TITLE, OFFICIAL ZONING MAP  Section 1.1 Title The Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Eufaula, Alabama.”  Section 1.2 Short Title This Ordinance and all subsequent amendments, attachments, and supplements thereto, shall be known as the "Eufaula Zoning Ordinance." Section 1.3 Official Zoning Map The City is hereby divided into zones or districts, as shown on the Official Zoning Map which together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance. 1.31. The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Council President attested by the City Clerk, and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: "This is to certify that this is the official Zoning Map of the City of Eufaula, Alabama,” together with the date of the adoption of this ordinance. 1.32. If, in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance changes are made in district boundaries, or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City Council, with an entry on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map as follows: The new boundary line shall be drawn, and within the newly zoned area a circle shall be drawn and include the designation of the new zone, the ordinance number which approved the change, and the effective date of the change. Such changes shall be completed by the City Planner or a designee thereof. 1.33. No changes of any nature shall be made on the official Zoning Map or matter shown thereon, except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this ordinance. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this ordinance and punishable as provided under Article Seven. 1.34. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map, which shall be located in the Eufaula Zoning Office at Eufaula City Hall, shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings, and other structures in the City. Section 1.4 Replacement of Official Zoning Map In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the City Council may by resolution, adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors, or omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original  6  Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor attested by the City Clerk, and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: "This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being replaced) as part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Eufaula, Alabama." Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining shall be preserved together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment. 7  ARTICLE TWO RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES  Section 2.1 Boundary Interpretations Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:  2.11. Boundaries indicated, as approximately following the centerlines of streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines. 2.12. Boundaries indicated, as approximately following platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines. 2.13. Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be construed as following such city limits. 2.14. Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to be midway between the main track(s). 2.15. Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to follow such shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line, shall be construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such center lines. 2.16. Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated in subsections 2.11 through 2.15 above shall be so construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the scale of the map. 2.17. Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not covered by subsections 2.11 through 2.16 above, the Board of Adjustment shall interpret the district boundaries, Any party aggrieved by any final judgment or decision of said Board of Zoning Adjustments may appeal said decision as provided for in Code of Alabama 1975, Section 11-5281. 2.18. Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single ownership at the time of passage of this ordinance, the Board of Adjustment may permit, as a special exception, the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot. 8   This page is intentionally left blank 9  ARTICLE THREE APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS  Section 3.1 Zoning Affects Every Building and Use The regulations set by this ordinance within each district shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided:  3.11. No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located. 3.12. No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:  3.121. To exceed the height or bulk  3.122. To accommodate or house a greater number of families  3.123. To occupy a greater percentage of lot area  3.124. To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces than herein required, or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this ordinance. 3.13. No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this ordinance shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for another building. 3.14. No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this ordinance shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this ordinance. 3.15. All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the City shall be considered to be in the FAR, Forestry, Agricultural and Residential District, until otherwise classified. 10  This page is intentionally left blank  11  ARTICLE FOUR NONCONFORMING LOTS, NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND, NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES, NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES, AND NONCONFORMING CHARACTERISTICS OF USE  Section 4.1. Continuance of Nonconforming Uses Within the districts established by this ordinance, or amendments that may later be adopted, there may exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and characteristics of use which were unlawful before this ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this ordinance or future amendment. It is the intent of this ordinance to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this ordinance that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. 4.11. Extension of Nonconformities: Nonconforming uses are declared by this ordinance to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this ordinance by attachment of a building or premises, or by the addition of other uses, of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the district involved. 4.12. Construction Prior to Adoption: To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance and upon which actual building construction has been carried on diligently. 4.121. Actual construction is hereby defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner. 4.122. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that work shall be carried on in accordance with Section 4.121 within thirty (30) days of adoption of this ordinance. 4.123. Continuation. Any nonconforming use may be continued indefinitely although such use does not conform to the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance. Unless specifically provided by the Board of Adjustment for a particular use, no change in title or possession or any other change in status of a property on which a nonconforming use exists shall prevent the continuance of such nonconforming uses. Section 4.2. Nonconforming Lots of Record In any district in which single family dwellings are permitted a single family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance notwithstanding limitations imposed by other  12  provisions of this ordinance but subject to the limitations imposed by this section. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than these applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located, provided further that in the event said lot is not serviced by a sanitary sewer, a certificate of approval as to the suitability of said lot for a septic tank is first obtained from the appropriate health authority. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only through action of the Board of Adjustment. 4.21. If, however, the owner of two or more adjoining lots each of which is insufficient in land dimensions decides to build on or to sell one of these lots, he must first combine lots to comply with the dimensional requirements of the ordinance. The Board of Adjustment may, by variance, reduce or waive the yard requirements on nonconforming lots where enforcement of the yard requirements would create an excessively small or narrow building area. The Board shall, in its deliberations on appeal for a variance, take into consideration typical lot sized and existing yards in the general area where the nonconforming lot is located, giving particular attention to existing uses and setbacks on adjacent property. Section 4.3. Nonconforming Uses of Land Where at the time of passage of this ordinance lawful use of land other than lots provided for in Section 4.2, infra, exists which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this ordinance, and where such use involves no individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding $1,000, the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:  4.31. Extension of Nonconforming Use: No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance. 4.32. Relocation of Nonconforming Use: No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance. 4.33. Discontinuance of Nonconforming Use: If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period of more than 120 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this ordinance for the district in which such land is located. 4.34. Additional Structures: No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this ordinance shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land. Section 4.4. Nonconforming Structures Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance that could not be built under the terms of this ordinance by reason of not being in the proper district, restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:  13   4.41. Extension of Nonconforming Structure: No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity. 4.42. Replacement and/or Tearing Down of Nonconforming Structure: Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of structure be destroyed or damaged by any means exceeding its full value above foundation for ad valorem tax purposes it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance. If the structure cannot be reconstructed or repaired because of the application of this Article, it shall be the owner's responsibility to demolish said structure and to remove all debris within the sooner of 180 days of the date the structure was damaged or destroyed or within 120 days of the date the Board of Adjustment denies a building permit. 4.43. Relocation of Nonconforming Structure: Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located after it is moved. 4.44. Existing Nonconforming Mobile Home: Such mobile home may be replaced, subject to requirements of Section 5.239. Section 4.5. Nonconforming Uses of Structures or of Structures and Premises in Combination If a lawful use involving individual structures with a replacement cost of $1,000 or more, or of structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this ordinance, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:  4.51. Extension of Nonconforming Use of Structure: No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this ordinance in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located. 4.52. Extension of Nonconforming Use: Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such at the time of adoption or amendment of this ordinance, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building. 4.53. Change to Nonconforming Use: In changing a nonconforming use to another nonconforming use the Board of Adjustment shall render such decisions only if the following conditions are satisfied. 4.531. Change shall be permitted only by special exception under the provisions of Section 8.512-8.514. 14  4.532. The applicant must show that the nonconforming use cannot reasonably be changed to a permitted use. 4.533. The applicant shall show that the proposed change must be less objectionable in external effects than the existing nonconforming use with respect to:  1. Traffic generation and congestion including truck, passenger car, and pedestrian traffic  2. Noise, dust, smoky glow, fumes, vapors, etc. 3. Storage and waste disposal  4. Appliances  4.534. The proposed use is a permitted use in one or more zoning districts. 4.54. Establishment of Conforming Use: Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed. 4.55. Discontinuation of Nonconforming Use: When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for twelve (12) consecutive months or for eighteen (18) months during any three-year period (except when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure or structure and premises in combination shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located,  4.56. Elimination of Nonconforming Mobile Homes: When a nonconforming mobile home is moved from its site, or upon violation of any other applicable ordinance requiring vacating the mobile home as a residence, shall be considered grounds for elimination of the nonconformity. In those instances where a nonconforming mobile home is vacant for three (3) consecutive months or nine (9) months in any two (2) year period, it shall not be occupied again and the nonconformity shall be removed  4.57. Elimination of Nonconforming Status of Land: Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in combination removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land. Destruction for the purpose of this subsection is defined as damaged to an extent of more than 50 percent of the replacement cost at time of destruction  Section 4.6. Repairs and Maintenance of Nonconforming Structures On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of the nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 10 percent of the current replacement cost of the nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion  15  of the structure as the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing when it becomes nonconforming shall not be increased. 4.61. Unsafe Structures: If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs and maintenance and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located,  4.62. Restoration of Safe Conditions: Nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building of part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of such officials  4.63. Prior Approval of Board of Adjustment: In order to insure maximum conformity with this section, before a building permit may be obtained by any person for repairs, replacement additions alterations improvements, changes or demolitions to a structure which does not conform to this section, said application must first be approved by the Board of Adjustment. Section 4.7. Uses Under Special Exception Provisions not Nonconforming Uses Any use which is permitted as a special exception in a district under the terms of this ordinance (other than a change through Board of Adjustment action from a nonconforming use to another use not generally permitted in the district) shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but shall without further action be considered a conforming use. 16   This page is intentionally left blank  17  ARTICLE FIVE CLASSIFICATION OF SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS  Section 5.1. Classification of District For the purpose of this ordinance the City of Eufaula is hereby divided into the following zone districts: FAR Forestry-Agricultural-Residential; R-1, Low Density Residential; R-2, Medium Density Residential; R-3 and R-4, High Density; MHR, Mobile Home Residential; MHP, Mobile Home Park; C-1, Neighborhood Commercial; C-2, General Commercial; C-3, Central Business District; C-4, Highway Commercial; M-1, Light Industrial; M-2, Heavy Industrial; PH, Professional Office/Historic Tourist; E-1, Estate District. Section 5.2. Schedule of District Regulations Within the following zoning districts as shown on the official Zoning Map of the City of Eufaula Alabama the following regulations shall apply:  5.21. FAR: Forestry-Agricultural-Residential  5.211. Statement of Intent The intent of the Forestry-Agricultural-Residential District is to provide for the preservation of prime agricultural/forestry lands; to provide for the preservation of natural and scenic areas needed for outdoor recreation, open space, water aquifer rechargers, essential drainage areas; and to provide for protection of such lands from premature or incompatible development, yet provide an opportunity for the best use of land through various development schemes. 5.212. Uses Permitted 1. General and specialized farming, forestry and agricultural uses, except commercial animal feed lots and poultry farms. 2. Roadside stands for the sale of produce raised on the farm premises. 3. Conservation areas and structures for the development, protection, preservation and conservation of open space, watersheds, water, soil, forest and wildlife resources. 4. Parks, playgrounds, playfields, general recreation facilities, golf courses and clubhouses. 5. Single family detached dwellings, to include mobile homes on single family lots. 6. Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses. 7. Plant nurseries and greenhouses. 8. Churches and other places of worship. 9. Schools offering general education courses. 10. Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, and orphanages. 5.213. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. Home occupations in accordance with the provision of Section 6.24. 2. Clubs operated and owned by non-profit corporations. 3. Resorts, campgrounds, riding academies and stables. 4. Airports. 18  5. Sanitary landfills, quarries. 6. Cemeteries. 7. Railroad rights-of-way and essential community facilities. 8. Tourist courts, tourist homes, motor courts, hotels, 9. Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned special exceptions. 10. Day Care Home, subject to the requirements of Section 6.6. 5.214. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. All special exceptions in FAR Districts should comply with the forestry-agricultural- residential intent expressed, for this district, Section 5.211. 2. Special exceptions for uses not directly related to the promotion of forestry-agricultural- residential uses or not classified as providing essential facilities and services for residents of FAR Districts shall not be issued by the Board of Adjustment unless it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Board of Adjustment that such use would not be detrimental to the preservation of FAR lands; and 3. That no other available lands within the City of Eufaula are suitable for such development. 4. Standards for uses permitted on appeal must meet the general criteria established in Section 8.512 of this Zoning Ordinance. 5.215. Uses Prohibited Residential, commercial and industrial uses not specifically permitted. 5.216. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards and Building Area Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements: Minimum required lot area:      15,000 sq. ft. If access to community sewage system is not available, and a larger minimum area is required to meet the percolation standards for the Barbour County Board of Health, Board of Health minimums shall prevail. Minimum required corner lot width at building line: 100 ft. Minimum required inside lot width at building line: 100 ft. Minimum required corner lot yard width from all streets: 35 ft. Minimum required depth of front yard: 45 ft. Minimum required width of each side yard: 20 ft. Minimum required rear yard: 40 ft. Maximum total building area of total lot: 20 % Accessory Structures: rear and side yard: 3 ft. 5.217. Heights of Buildings No building shall exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) stories or thirty-five (35) feet in height except in the case of towers, spires, domes or other such structures not designed for human occupancy, which may exceed this height provided such structures comply with the provisions of all other pertinent codes and ordinances, and provided further, that such structures are located no closer to the nearest property lines than the distance equal to their height plus ten (10) feet. 5.22. R-1, Low Density Residential  19  5.221. Statement of Intent The intent of the R-1, Low Density Residential District is to provide a quality living environment through the provision of land for low density residential uses consisting of single family dwellings and essential community facilities and services supporting such residential uses. 5.222. Uses Permitted 1. Single family dwellings and associated accessory structures and uses customarily incidental thereto. 2. On-site signs, only in accordance with the provisions specified in Article 6.21. 3. Schools, churches, public facilities. 5.223. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. Public parks, recreational facilities, public utilities. 2. Associated structures or uses customarily incidental to the uses permitted on appeal. 3. Home occupations only in accordance with the provisions specified in Article 6.24. 4. Day Care Home, subject to the requirements to Section 6.6. 5.224. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. All uses permitted on appeal in R-1 District shall be in compliance with the intent of this district as expressed in Section 5.221. 2. Nonresidential uses permitted on appeal defined as compatible in the residential area shall have property access to an identified collector street. 3. The use of exterior lighting systems for special uses shall be allowable only on approval of the Board of Adjustment. Such system, if approved, must be so designed as to reflect light away from adjoining premises and streets. Private security lights are exempt from requirement of approval by the Board of Adjustment but must meet the requirements for residential lighting as outlined in Section 11.25 of this ordinance. 4. Hours of operation for nonresidential uses permitted on appeal in a Residential R-1 District may be limited by the Board of Adjustment to promote the intent of this ordinance. 5. All uses permitted on appeal must meet the general criteria established in Section 8.512 of this Zoning Ordinance. 5.225. Uses Prohibited 1. Mobile homes. 2. Commercial and industrial uses not specifically permitted. 3. Multi-family dwellings. 5.226. Required Lot Area, Lot Width and Building Area Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements:  Minimum lot area: 15,000 sq. ft. If access to community sewage system is not available, and a larger minimum area is required to meet the percolation standards for the Barbour County Board of Health, Board of Health minimums shall prevail. 20  Minimum required corner lot width at building line: 100 ft. Minimum required inside lot width at the building line: 100 ft. Minimum required corner lot yard width from all streets: 35 ft. Minimum required depth of front yard: 35 ft. Minimum required width of each side yard: 10 ft. Minimum required rear yard: 40 ft. Maximum total building area of total lot: 35 % Accessory Structures: rear and side yard: 3 ft. 5.227. Height of Buildings: 1. No dwelling shall exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) stories or thirty-five (35) feet in height. 2. No accessory structures shall exceed two (2) stories or twenty-five (25) feet in height. 3. No building shall exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) stories or thirty-five (35) feet in height, except in the case of towers, to include TV and short wave radio antenna, spirals, domes or other such structures not designed for human occupancy, which may exceed this height provided that such structures comply with the provisions of all other pertinent codes and ordinances, and further provided that such structures are located no closer to the nearest property line than the distance equal to their height plus 10 feet. 5.23. R-2, Medium Density Residential  5.231. Statement of Intent The intent of this district is to promote a quality living environment through the provision of land for medium density residential uses including single family and duplex residences on moderate lots and essential community facilities and services for such residential uses. 5.232. Uses Permitted 1. Single family dwellings. 2. Two-family dwellings. 3. Churches, schools, public facilities. 4. On-site signs, only in accordance with the provisions specified in Article 6.21. 5.233. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. Public parks and recreational facilities, public utilities. 2. Associated accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to the use permitted on appeal. 3. Home occupations, only in accordance with the provisions specified in Article 6.24. 4. Townhouses as specified in these district regulations. 5. Day Care Homes, subject to the requirements of Section 6.6. 6. Manufactured homes, subject to requirements of Section 5.239. 5.234. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal in R-2 Districts 1. All uses permitted on appeal in an R-2 Residential District shall be in compliance with the intent of these district regulations as expressed in section 5.231. 21  2. Uses permitted on appeal not directly related to the promotion of a quality living environment and not classified as providing essential facilities and services for residences of this district shall not be issued by the Board of Adjustment. 3. Nonresidential uses permitted on appeal defined as compatible in an R-2 Residential District shall have property access to an identified collector street. 4. The use of exterior lighting systems for uses permitted on appeal in an R-2 District shall be allowable only on approval of the Board of Adjustment. Such systems, if approved, must be so designed as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises and streets. 5. Hours of operations for nonresidential uses permitted on appeal in an R-2, Residential District may be limited by the Board of Adjustment to further promote the intent of this ordinance. 6. All uses permitted on appeal must meet the general criteria established in Section 8.512 of the Zoning ordinance. 7. Nonresidential uses shall conform to the off- street parking requirements as set forth in Section 6.22. 5.235. Uses Prohibited 1. Commercial and industrial uses not specifically permitted. 2. Multi-family (three or more) dwellings. 5.236. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards and Building Areas Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements: Minimum required lot area Single-family dwellings: 12,000 sq. ft. Two-family dwellings: 15,000 sq. ft. If access to community sewage system is not available, and a larger minimum area is required to meet the percolation standards for the Barbour County Board of Health, Board of Health minimums shall prevail. Minimum required corner lot width at building line  Single family house: 90 ft.  Two-family dwellings: 100 ft. Minimum required inside lot width at building line  Single family dwelling: 75 ft.  Two residences: 85 ft. Minimum corner lot yard width from all streets: 35 ft. Minimum required depth of front yard: 35 ft. Minimum required width of each side yard: 10 ft. Two & multi-family residences: 12 ft. Minimum required rear yard: 40 ft. Maximum total building area of total lot: 35% Accessory structures: rear and side yard: 3 ft. 5.237. Special Requirements for Townhouses/Condominiums 1. No building permit shall be issued for townhouses, and the Board of Adjustment shall not issue a special exception involving townhouses, except upon a favorable or conditionally  22  favorable report from the Planning Commission. Prior to issuing a favorable report, the Planning Commission shall seek the advice and recommendations of the planning staff, and shall determine that the proposed townhouses are designed in such a manner as to be in harmony with the character of the surrounding neighborhood. Where conditions are attached by the Planning Commission, they shall be included as part of the building permit. If Special Exception is involved, the Board of Adjustment shall not grant such exception except with the conditions attached by the Planning Commission, but the Board may add to these conditions, conditions of its own in granting approval. 2. It is the intent of this ordinance that townhouses in areas where they are or may be permitted:  (1) May be appropriately intermingled with types of housing; (2) Shall not form long, unbroken lines of row housing; (3) Shall constitute grouping making efficient, economical, comfortable, and convenient use of land and open space and serving the public purposes of zoning by means alternative to conventional arrangements of yards and building areas. 3. In line with the general considerations above, the following site plan and design criteria are established:  (1) In groups of townhouses, no two contiguous townhouses shall share the same front line or roof line. The minimum offset for each townhouse shall be three (3) feet, not less than three (3) nor more than eight (8) townhouses shall be contiguous. (2) Minimum width for the portion of the lot on which a townhouse is to be constructed shall be 18 feet. (3) Minimum lot area shall be 2,000 square feet. (4) No portion of a townhouse or accessory structure in or related to one townhouse complex shall be closer than 20 feet to any portion of a townhouse or accessory structure related to another townhouse complex or to any building outside the townhouse areas. (5) Each townhouse shall be constructed on its own lot. Townhouses constructed in condominium developments may be excepted from this requirement by the Planning Commission. (6) No side yard shall be required except at the unattached ends of a townhouse complex in which case the minimum width shall be ten feet. Minimum depth of front yard shall be 20 feet. (7) Each townhouse shall have on its own land area containing not less than four hundred square feet, reasonably secluded from view from streets or from neighboring property. In condominium townhouse developments not subdivided into individual lots, one yard containing not less than four hundred square feet, reasonably secluded from view from streets or from neighboring property, shall be provided contiguous to, and for the private use of the occupants off each dwelling unit. (8) Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of two spaces per townhouse. Insofar as practicable, off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in bays, whether adjacent to streets or in the interior of blocks. No off-street parking space shall be more than 100 feet by the most direct pedestrian route from a door of the dwelling unit it is intended to serve. 23  (9) In townhouse developments with a total area greater than 5 acres at least 20 percent of the total area shall be devoted to common open space, exclusive of parking areas of accessory buildings. Such common open areas may include recreational facilities. In addition, the developer of a townhouse development or home owners' association created by the developer, by recorded covenants and restrictions shall preserve for the owners and occupants of the development such lands set aside for open areas, parks or recreational use and the common off-street parking spaces established for the development. (10) Story and building height requirements shall be in accordance with those specified for the district in which the townhouse is located. 5.238. Height of Buildings All heights permitted in and regulated by the provisions for an R-1, Residential Districts. 5.239. Minimum Standards for Manufactured Homes Placed in Residential Districts The intent of this section is to insure that manufactured homes placed in residential districts will resemble site-built homes. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may require other conditions and safeguards it deems appropriate to insure the intent of the Zoning Ordinance. 1. Homes shall be set on permanent masonry foundation along the exterior perimeter. 2. Wheels, tongue, and axles shall be removed. 3. Roofing materials shall be similar to those used on surrounding homes. 4. Homes shall have pitched roofs (3:12 minimum) with overhang similar to surrounding homes (6” minimum). 5. Homes shall have exterior siding similar to surrounding homes. Steel siding not allowed. 6. Landings shall be required at each exterior entrance. Thirty square feet minimum at the front and 16 square feet at the side or rear. Landings shall be constructed with quality materials and be attractive in appearance. Plans for landings shall be submitted with application for variance. 7. The minimum width of the main portion of the structure shall be no less than 20 feet. 8. Homes shall be built to meet federal manufactured housing standards. 9. Every home shall be placed so that the apparent entrance or front faces or parallels the principal street frontage. 10. Manufactured homes shall be no more than four model years old when installed. 11. The owner of the property shall place the following language on the recorded plat and on all deeds conveying the property: “THE EUFAULA BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT HAS GRANTED A VARIANCE FOR THE PLACEMENT OF A MANUFACTURED HOME ON THIS LOT. THE VARIANCE IS PERSONAL AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE. ANY SUBSEQUENT OWNERS OF THE LOT MUST APPLY FOR AND RECEIVE A VARIANCE BEFORE THE HOME IS OCCUPIED. THE HOME SHALL NOT BE USED FOR RENTAL PURPOSES”. 5.24. R-3, High Density Residential  24  5.241. Statement of Intent The intent of the R-3, High Density Residential District is to promote an opportunity for various living environment by providing land for high density residential uses appropriate to the environmental character of the Eufaula area, and including provisions for those non- residential uses considered compatible with the character of the residential district itself and providing essential community services for residents of the community. 5.242. Uses Permitted 1. All uses in and regulated by the provisions for an R-2, Medium Density Residential District. 2. Townhouses as regulated in Section 5.237, but not subject to the review of the Planning Commission and the issuance of a special exception by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. 3. Multi-family structures. 5.243. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. All uses permitted on appeal in an R-2 Medium Density Residential District. 2. Rooming, tourist and boarding houses provided that the floor area for such proposed use shall not exceed 75% of the total floor area of the residence. 3. Home occupations only in accordance with Article 6.24. 4. Day Care Home, subject to the requirements of Section 6.6. 5. Manufactured homes, subject to requirements of Section 5.239. 5.244. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal in R-3, Residential District 1. All uses permitted on appeal in an R-3 Residential District shall be in compliance with the intent of the district regulations as expressed in Section 5.241. 2. Uses permitted on appeal in an R-3 Residential District shall conform to the standards for uses permitted on appeal as specified in Section 5.234 for R-2 District. 3. All uses permitted in appeal must meet the general criteria as established in Section 8.512. 4. Nonresidential uses shall conform to the off-street parking requirements as set forth in Section 6.22. 5.245. Uses Prohibited 1. Commercial and industrial uses not specifically permitted. 5.246. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards and Building Area: Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements: Minimum required lot area: Single family dwelling:  9,000 sq. ft. Two family dwelling:   12,000 sq. ft. Each additional unit:   2,000 sq. ft. If access to community sewage system is not available, and a larger minimum area is required to meet the percolation standards for the Barbour County Board of Health, Board of Health minimums shall prevail. Minimum required corner lot width at the building line:  25   Single family residence: 75 ft.  Two and multi-family residences: 95 ft. Minimum required inside lot width at the building line:  Single family dwellings: 60 ft.  Two and multi-family residences: 80 ft. Minimum required corner lot yard width from all streets: 30 ft. Minimum required depth of front yard: 30 ft. Minimum total side yards: 17 ft. Minimum one side yard: 7 ft. Minimum required rear yard: 35 ft. Maximum total building area of total lot area: 40 % Accessory structures: rear and side yard: 3 ft.     5.247. Height of Buildings All heights permitted in and regulated by the provisions for an R-2, Medium Density Residential District. 5.25. R-4, High Density Residential  5.251. Statement of Intent The intent of the R-4, High Density Residential District is to provide an expanded choice of residential areas for the residents of the City of Eufaula by providing land for high density residential uses and including provisions for those nonresidential uses considered compatible with the character of the residential district itself and providing essential community services for residents of the community. 5.252. Uses Permitted All uses in and regulated by the provisions for an R-3, Medium Density Residential District. 5.253. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. All uses permitted on appeal in an R-3, Medium Density Residential District. 2. Rooming, tourist and boarding houses provided that the floor area for such proposed use shall not exceed 75% of the total floor area of the residence. 3. Home occupations only in accordance with Article 6.24. 4. Day Care Home, subject to the requirements of Section 6.6. 5.254. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal in R-4, Residential District 1. All uses permitted on appeal in an R-4 Residential District shall be in compliance with the intent of the district regulations as expressed in Section 5.251. 2. Uses permitted on appeal in an R-4 Residential District shall conform to the standards for uses permitted on appeal as specified in Section 5.244 for R-3 District. 3. All uses permitted on appeal must meet the general criteria established in Section 8.512. 5.255. Uses Prohibited Residential and industrial uses not specifically permitted. 5.256. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards and Building Area  26  Minimum required lot area: Single family dwellings: 7,200 sq. ft. Two-family dwellings: 10,000 sq. ft. Each additional unit: 2,000 sq. ft. If access to community sewage system is not available and a larger minimum area is required to meet the percolation standards for the Barbour County Board of Health, Board of Health minimums shall prevail. Minimum required corner lot width at the building line:  Single family residence 75 ft.  Two and multi-family residences 95 ft. Minimum required inside lot width at the building line:  Single family dwellings 60 ft.  Two and multifamily dwellings 80 ft. Minimum required corner lot yard width from all streets 30 ft. Minimum required depth of front yard 30 ft. Minimum total side yards 17 ft. Minimum one-side yard 7 ft. Minimum required rear yard 35 ft. Maximum total building area of total lot area 40 % Accessory structures: rear and side yard 3 ft. 5.257. Height of Building All heights permitted in and regulated by the provisions for an R-3 Residential District. 5.26. MHR. MOBILE HOME  5.261. State of Intent It is the intent of this district to allow for the placement of mobile homes defined in Section 11.24 of the Zoning Ordinance, on single-family lots in subdivisions established solely for the purpose of home ownership. 5.262. Uses Permitted 1. Single-family mobile homes. 2. Support services necessary to service the needs of the residents of the MHR District. 3. Accessory uses and structures. 4. Recreational facilities. 5. Any permitted use or use permitted on appeal in the R-1 District and subject to the district requirements thereof. 5.263. Uses Permitted on Appeal in the MHR District 1. Public utilities. 2. Semi-public buildings and uses. 3. Home occupations only in accordance with Article 6.24. 4. Day Care Home, subject to the requirements of Section 6.6. 5.264. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal in the MHR District  27  1. All uses permitted on appeal in the MHR District shall be in compliance with the intent of the District regulations as expressed in Section 5.261. 2. All uses permitted on appeal in an MHR District shall conform to the standards for uses permitted on appeal as expressed in Section 5.224. 3. Uses permitted on appeal in the MHR District shall conform to the standards set forth in Section 8.512. 5.265. Uses Prohibited Dwellings and other structures shall be so located so as to comply with the following requirements:  Minimum lot area: 9,375 sq. ft. Minimum lot width: 75 ft. Minimum lot depth: 125 ft. Minimum size yard:  Interior side:  Between mobile home and side lot line: 12 ft. Between mobile home and any permanent building: 25 ft.  Street side on corner lots: 20 ft. Minimum rear yard: 25 ft. Minimum building area: 45 % Accessory structures: rear and side yard: 3 ft. Off street parking requirements: Two (2) per mobile home lots. 5.267. Height of Buildings/Screening Requirements/Site Requirements 1. All heights as regulated in Section 5.227 of this Zoning ordinance. 2. Each mobile home dwelling shall remove the wheels and towing or tongue and hitch. 3. No later than thirty (30) days after placement of a mobile home dwelling on a site, the area between the bottom of the unit and the ground shall be enclosed by "screening or skirting" on all sides and ends. An inspection will be conducted no later than thirty-two (32) days after the placement of the dwelling on the site for compliance to these regulations. 5.27. MH, Mobile Home Park  5.271. Statement of Intent It is the intent of this district to allow for mobile home parks to be established where mobile home spaces can be rented, for compensation. The purpose of the district is to provide an expanded choice of housing opportunities for all socioeconomic classes. 5.272. Permitted Uses 1. Mobile home parks as regulated in these district requirements. 2. Accessory structures providing services only to residents of the mobile home park. 3. Recreation facilities. 4. Any permitted use or use permitted on appeal in the R-1District and subject to the district requirements thereof. 5.273. Uses Permitted on Appeal in the MH District  28  1. Public utilities. 2. Semi-public buildings and uses. 3. Home occupations only in accordance with Article 6.24 4. Day Care Home, subject to the requirements of Section 6.24. 5.274. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. All uses permitted on appeal in the MH District shall be in compliance with the intent of the District Regulations as expressed in Section 5.271. 2. All uses permitted on appeal in the MH District shall conform to the standards for uses permitted on appeal in Section 5.224. 3. All uses permitted on appeal in the MH District shall conform to the standards set forth in Section 8.512. 5.275. Uses Prohibited Residential, commercial, and industrial uses not specifically permitted. 5.276. Development Requirements The following minimum standards shall apply to all mobile home parks in the City of Eufaula:  a. All parks shall have at least ten (10) mobile homes whose minimum size shall be forty (40) by ninety (90) feet; and no lot may be occupied until at least five (5) lots within the park have been fully developed. b. All internal park streets shall have a minimum twenty (20) feet wide all-weather surface. At least one off-street parking space shall be provided on each lot. c. All sewage disposal facilities and water supply facilities must be approved by the State Health Department. Sewerage facilities and water supply shall be provided on each lot. d. All plumbing within any mobile home park shall comply with the "Plumbing Installation Standards for Mobile Homes and Travel Trailers and Parks," set forth by the Southern Standard Plumbing Code 1985 updated version Edition, as amended. e. All mobile home parks shall have front, rear, and side yards of at least twenty (20) feet wide which are planted and maintained. f. All mobile home parks shall have either a five (5) pound dry chemical extinguisher or pressure water hose protected from freezing within one hundred (100) feet of each mobile home. g. Each lot in any mobile home park shall be provided with two (2) thirty (30) gallon refuse cans having vermin-proof lids, so secured that animals cannot spill them. Regular garbage and refuse pick-up service must be provided at each mobile home park. h. Each mobile home park shall have its lots situated such that no mobile home is located within twenty-five (25) feet of any other mobile home or permanent structure; except that an individual storage shed or locker having not over one hundred square feet floor space may be provided on any lot. 29  i. Each mobile home park provided ten (10) or more mobile home spaces must provide suitable playground area of not less than three hundred (300) square feet for each mobile home space. j. Electrical corrections to each lot shall conform to the specifications of the National Electrical Code, as amended. At least one street or night light shall be provided for each ten (10) lots or a fraction thereof. k. Site Considerations: 1. The selection of the site of a mobile home park shall take into account the proximity of environmental factors which exist or may result from the change in land use with regard to the health or safety or comfort of persons who are to reside on the park or persons using land in the vicinity of the site. 2. No site shall be used for a mobile home park which is subject to flood or undue pooling of water or air pollution by smoke, dust, or fumes. l. Site Plans: 1. A copy of the plans for the proposed mobile home park or extension or replat of an existing mobile home park shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and approval before construction begins. 2. The plan shall show in detail the proposed construction or changes in land use with regard to the site boundary, street and lot layout, location, and designation of buildings and other facilities including detailed plans for water supply, sewerage and sewage disposal, garbage disposal and area drainage. 3. In approving a mobile home park site, there may be imposed such reasonable requirements as to screening and other features of the development as are deemed necessary to protect property and prevent objectionable conditions. m. Rules: 1. Each mobile home park shall operate under supervision of a manger who shall be reasonably available at all times. 2. The mobile home park management shall furnish and hand to each responsible mobile home resident at the first occupancy a printed set of rules for residents of the park, with any changes thereto included, which shall include a statement of when and where the park manager will be available, and the rules in regard to storage, garbage, trash, animals, pets, water and sewer frost proofing, and other matters having a bearing on area sanitation, health and safety. 3. A copy of the rules referred to in 2 and all changes thereto shall be presented to the State Health Department for review and record. n. Permits Prescribed: 1. The State Health Department shall issue permits to persons who operate mobile home parks which comply with the above regulations. 2. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the operation of a mobile home park, without having applied for and obtained from the State Health Officer a permit based on satisfactory compliance with the foregoing specifications and regulations. 30  3. The said permit shall be issued without charge to the permittee; shall be nontransferable with respect to persons or establishments; shall be kept posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment; shall automatically expire on the date upon which state and county privilege licenses expire annually; and shall be renewable during the sixty (60) days prior to that date each year. 4. The issuance of a permit for the operation of a mobile home park, for a year, for part of a year, or for operation at a new location, shall be conditioned upon compliance with regulations as determined by one or more inspections. 5. The said permit may be revoked because of the violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance; provided that the holder of said permit shall have the legal right of appeal. 5.28. C-1, Neighborhood Commercial  5.281. Statement of Intent The intent of C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District is to provide limited retail convenience goods and personal services establishments in residential neighborhoods and to encourage the concentration of these uses in one location for each residential neighborhood rather than stripped or scattered commercial developments occupied by individual shops throughout a neighborhood. 5.282. Uses Permitted Retail convenience, personal service and business establishments primarily oriented to the sale of goods and provision of personal services to residents of a neighborhood. Such uses may include but are not limited to, barber shops, beauty shops, branch banks, cafes, drugstores, fruit markets, dry cleaning and laundry pick-up, flower shops, convenience grocery stores, ice cream stores, self-service stores, appliance stores. Uses permitted or permitted on appeal in the R-3 Residential District and subject to the requirements thereof. Public facilities to include hospitals, schools, etc. and their customary accessory uses, semi- public facilities. 5.283. Uses Permitted on Appeal Filling stations, not to include repair. Outdoor advertising signs and structures provided, however, that such use is not located within 100 feet of a residential district. 5.284. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal in a C-1 District 1. All special uses permitted in the C-1 District should be in compliance with the intent of this district as expressed in Section 5.281. 2. All uses permitted must conform to standards set forth in Section 8.512. 3. Uses permitted on appeal for uses not directly related to the neighborhood orientation of commercial personal service or business uses are not classified as providing essential facilities and services for such uses shall not be issued by the Board of Adjustment unless it can be proved to the satisfaction of the Board of Adjustment that the use would not be detrimental to the preservation of the commercial district. 5.285. Uses Prohibited Major auto repair; auto wrecking and wrecker junk stores; laundry and dry cleaning plants; light or heavy manufacturing; and wholesale businesses and lounges, taverns, bars or beer  31  parlors; cash advance/pay day loan, title pawn establishments shall be prohibited from the C- 1 Neighborhood Commercial District. (Amended 10/6/14; Ord. 2014-10) 5.286. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards and Setbacks All buildings hereafter constructed for uses listed in this subsection shall be so located as to comply with the following minimum requirements: Minimum Required Lot Area: It is the intent of this subsection that lots of sufficient size be used for the business or service permitted, provided however, that such use shall have adequate space for normal operations plus required space for off-street parking and loading, and yard requirements. If access to community sewerage system is not available, and a larger minimum area is required to meet the percolation standards for the Barbour County Board of Health, Board of Health minimums shall prevail. Minimum required lot width at building line: 50 ft. Minimum required front yard: 35 ft. Minimum required rear yard: 25 ft. Minimum required side yard on corner lots intersecting streets: 25 ft.   on interior lots: 15 ft. On a lot adjoining a residential district along a side lot line, yard shall be required on the side adjacent to the residential district. Such side yard shall double the minimum side yard requirements of that adjacent residential district. Gasoline pump and pump islands shall be set back a minimum of fifteen (15) feet from all street rights-of-way. 5.287. Height of Buildings No building shall exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) stories or thirty-five (35) feet in height except that public and semipublic buildings may have a height not to exceed three (3) stories or forty-five (45) feet. Towers, spirals, domes and other such structures not designed for human occupancy may exceed the height limitations provided that such structures comply with the provisions of all other pertinent codes and ordinances, and provided further, that such structures are located no closer to the nearest property line than the distance equal to their height plus ten (10) feet. 5.29. C-2, General Commercial  5.291. Statement of Intent The intent of this district is to provide opportunities for retail convenience, personal services and business establishments, primarily oriented to the sale of goods and the provision of personal services with only limited production and process activities and not requiring extensive wholesale, or storage areas or generating excessive noise, smoke, vibrations, odors or other objectionable emissions which would be detrimental to adjoining land uses. Such districts are community-oriented commercial areas, rather than neighborhood-oriented and as such require location and proximity to major transportation routes. 32  5.292. Uses Permitted Retail convenience, personal services and business establishments; motels, theaters, offices and banks, restaurants, lounges, taverns, bars, or beer parlors, filling stations, new and used automobile sales and service, funeral homes, parks and public recreational facilities, parking lots, package stores; cash advance/pay day loan, title pawn establishments as regulated in Section 6.26. Any use permitted or permitted on appeal in an R-3 District and subject to the requirements thereto; government buildings and offices to include, but not be limited to jails, police stations, and fire stations; any use permitted or permitted on appeal in the C-l District and subject to the requirements thereto. (Amended 10/6/14; Ord. 2014-10) 5.293. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. Light warehousing or storage related to retail trades and services. 2. Manufacturing incidental to a retail trade business where articles are sold on the premises. 3. Animal clinics 4. Hospitals 5. Kennels 5.294. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal in a C-2 District 1. All uses permitted on appeal in a C-2 District shall comply with those standards specified for uses permitted on appeal in a C-1 District. 2. All uses permitted on appeal in the C-2 District shall be in compliance with the intent of the District regulations as expressed in Section 5.291. 3. Uses permitted on appeal shall conform to the standards set forth in Section 8.512. 5.295. Uses Prohibited Any use not specifically intended by the Statement of Intent, Section 5.291. 5.296. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards and Setbacks Buildings hereafter constructed for uses permitted in this subsection shall be so located as to comply with the following requirements:  Minimum required lot width at building line: 50 ft. Minimum required front yard: 40 ft. Minimum required rear yard: 25 ft. Minimum required side yard on corner lots:  along intersection streets: 25 ft.  along interior lots: 15 ft. Maximum Building area: 40 %   If access to community sewage system is not available, and a larger minimum area is required to meet the percolation standards for the Barbour County Board of Health minimums shall prevail. Off-street parking spaces: As regulated in Section 6.22. Gasoline pumps and pump islands shall be set back a minimum of fifteen (15) feet from all streets and rights-of-way. 33  Residential uses shall comply with the lot area requirements of the R-4 Residential District. 5.297. Height of Buildings All heights permitted in and regulated by the provisions for a C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District. 5.30. C-3, CBD-Central Business District  5.301. Statement of Intent It is the intent of this district to provide for business and office activities, and high intensity retail sales and activities in the downtown area of Eufaula. This district is the central business district for the community. In a pedestrian-oriented, historically significant district; such uses as the following are promoted: Major stores offering comparison shopping Specialty stores Business services Banks and other financial institutions Offices Theaters Hotels and Restaurants Governmental Buildings The use of the land is intensive and this intensity of use is one of the main determinants of the Downtown vitality. For a residential flair, second story loft-type apartments are a permitted use. 5.302. Uses Permitted l. Amusement Services, such as: Amusement Arcades Bowling Alleys Theaters 2. Cultural and Community Facilities, such as: Art Galleries Libraries Museum YMCA Philanthropic institutions and clubs 3. Institutional Services, such as: Nursery schools Training Schools 4. Uses permitted or permitted on appeal in the R-3 Residential District and subject to the requirements thereto. 5. Personal Services, such as: Beauty and Barber Shops Funeral Homes Laundry Pick-up Laundromats  34  Restaurants (fully enclosed, no drive-in facilities), but any such permitted restaurant shall not be permitted to sell or to serve for consumption alcoholic beverages past 12 midnight nor shall any permitted restaurant be allowed to permit alcoholic beverages to be consumed or possessed on the premises past 12 midnight. Studios Service Station 6. Professional Services, such as: Banks Business and Professional offices Government Offices to include but not limited to jails, police and fire stations 7. Retail Uses, such as: Antique Shops Art Supply Stores Appliance Stores Bakeries Book Stores Clothing Stores Craft Shops Department Stores Delicatessens Drug Stores Fabric Stores Hardware Stores Floor Covering Flower Shops Garden Supply Shops Office Supply Stores Paint Stores Pawn Shops Pet Shops Shoe Stores Toy Stores Other stores of a similar nature designed for the retailing of merchandise and services to the general public 8. Any use permitted or permitted on appeal in the C-2 (General Commercial) District. 5.303. Uses Permitted on Appeal Light warehousing or storage related to retail trade services. Lounges, taverns, bars, or beer parlors. 5.304. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal in the C-3 District 1. All uses permitted on appeal in the C-3 District shall comply with those standards specified for uses permitted on appeal in the C-1 District. 2. All uses permitted on appeal must conform to the standards and criteria of Section 8.512. 35  3. All uses permitted on appeal in the C-3 District shall be in compliance with the intent of the District as expressed in Section 5.301. 5.305. Uses Prohibited Stockyard; live animal or live poultry sales; coal yard, lumber yard or lumber mill; auto wrecking; gasoline, oil, or alcohol storage above the ground in excess of five hundred gallons; grist or flour mills; ice plant; junk; scrap paper; rag storage or bailing; stone or monument works, lounges, taverns, bars or beer parlors. Any use prohibited in M-1 District. 5.306. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards, and Setbacks Buildings hereafter constructed for uses permitted in this subsection shall be so located as to comply with the following requirements: Minimum Required Lot Area: None. Lots must be of sufficient size to be used for any business or service permitted herein. Off-street parking requirements: As regulated in Section 6.22 of this Zoning Ordinance. Residential uses shall conform to the following requirements: Minimum lot area per family: 500 square feet for multi-family dwellings or for dwelling units erected in conjunction with other uses. 5.307. Height of Buildings All heights permitted in and regulated by the provisions of the C-1 District. 5.31. C-4, Highway Commercial  5.311. Statement of Intent It is the intent of this District to provide for an opportunity for the location of retail sales and businesses along the main federal highways within the city. The placement of such businesses will be conducive to the tourist trade. 5.312. Uses Permitted Any retail, business or other use as permitted or permitted on appeal in the C-3 District, Section 5.30. Stores intended primarily for the tourist trade. Motels, Hotels Filling Stations Indoor repair of automobiles Signs as regulated in Section 6.21 Lounges, taverns, bars or beer parlors Any use permitted or permitted on appeal in the R-3 District and subject to requirements thereof. 5.313. Uses Permitted on Appeal Large dry cleaners and laundries, manufacturing incidental to a retail trade business where articles are sold on the premises. Animal clinics, hospital, or kennels. 5.314. Uses Prohibited Uses prohibited in the C-3 Districts. Cash advance/pay day loan, title pawn establishments. (Amended 10/6/14; Ord. 2014-10)  36  5.315. Standards for uses Permitted on Appeal in the C-4 District 1. All uses permitted on appeal in the C-4 District shall be in compliance with the intent of the District regulations as expressed in Section 5.311. 2. All uses permitted on appeal comply with those standards specified for uses permitted on appeal in the C-1 District. 3. Uses permitted on appeal shall conform to the standards set forth in Section 8.512. 5.316. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards, and Setbacks Buildings hereafter constructed for uses permitted in this subsection shall be so located as to comply with the following requirements:  Minimum Lot Area: It is the intent of this subsection that lots of sufficient size be used for the business or service permitted, provided, however, that such lots shall have adequate space for normal operations plus required off street parking, loading, and yard requirements. Minimum required front yard: 35 ft. Minimum required rear yard: 20 ft. Minimum required side yard: 10 ft. Maximum Building Area: 30% Off-street parking requirements: As regulated in Section 6.22 5.317. Height of Building No building shall exceed two and one-half (2 1/2) stories or thirty-five (35) feet, except that public and semi-public buildings may have a height not to exceed three (3) stories or forty- five (45) feet. All other heights permitted in and regulated by the provisions for the C-1 District. 5.32. M-1, Light Industrial  5.321. Statement of Intent It is the intent of this district to provide an opportunity for industrial uses in selected areas. It shall be the purpose of such districts to provide employment to the region and contribute to the tax base of the City. Development within such districts shall be compatible with surrounding or abutting residential districts with the suitable open spaces and landscaping, limited external effects and low intensity of development. 5.322. Uses Permitted 1. Any use permitted or permitted on appeal in the R-3 Residential District and subject to the requirements of said district as specified in Section 5.24 and the C-4 Commercial District, and subject to the regulations of Section 5.31. 2. Contractor's or construction equipment dealer's yard, 3. Grain and feed storage. 4. Heating fuel or building material storage or wholesaling; provided that the materials shall not be extracted or processed on the premises. 5. Lumber yard  37  6. Radio or television towers 7. Truck terminal 8. Railroad installation 9. Warehouse 10. Bottling plant or dairy 11. Assembly of parts for production of finished equipment 12. Manufacturing, fabricating, processing, or assembling uses which do not create any danger to health or safety in surrounding areas, which do not create any objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, heat, odor, glare, such as the following: boats clothing food pharmaceuticals furniture and wood products glass products hand tools ice musical instruments office machines plastic products, not including processing or raw materials plating of silverware or utensils signs sporting goods other similar uses 13. Accessory structures and uses 5.323. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. Any manufacturing or business use not specifically prohibited. 5.324. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. All uses permitted on appeal in the M-1 District shall be in compliance with the intent of the District regulations as expressed in Section 5.321. 2. Uses permitted on appeal shall conform with the standards established in Section 8.512. 3. All uses permitted on appeal shall be in compliance with Section 5.336. 5.325. Uses Prohibited Abattoir; slaughterhouse; stockyard; bag cleaning; boiler and tank works; central mixing plant for cement mortar, plaster, or paving materials; curing, tanning, or storage of hides; distillation of bones, coal, tar, or wood; fat rendering; forge plant; gasoline storage above the ground in excess of five hundred gallons manufacturing of acetylene; acid, alcohol, ammonia, bleaching powder, brick, pottery, terra-cotta or tile, concrete blocks, candles, disinfectant, dye-stuffs, fertilizers, illuminating or heating gas including storage of same; paint, turpentine, varnish, soap, and tar products; wool pulling or scouring, junk yards; cotton waste reclaiming; and similar types of plants. 38  5.326. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards, and Setbacks It is the intent of the ordinance that lots of sufficient size be used for any industrial, service, or business use to provide adequate parking and loading space in addition to the space required for the other normal operation of the enterprise. Minimum Yard Size: None specified except where existing establishments (other than residential) are setback, any new structure shall be setback not less than the average of the setbacks of the existing establishments within one hundred feet each side thereof. Maximum Building Area: 40% of lot area Minimum Side Yard: None specified, excepting a lot, adjoining its side lot line (is) another lot which is in a residential district, there shall be a side yard not less than ten (10) feet wide. Rear Yard: None specified, except where a rear lot adjoins a residential district, there shall be a rear yard not less than twenty-five (25) feet. Off-Street Parking. One space for every two employees of the industry on the largest shift. Also, space necessary to store overnight all vehicles incidental to the operation of the industry or use, or as regulated in Section 6.227. Off-Street Loading and Unloading: Shall provide adequate space for loading and unloading all vehicles or trucks incidental to the operation or industry as regulation in Section 6.23. 5.327. Height of Buildings Fifty (50) feet or four (4) stories. 5.33. M-2, Heavy Industrial  5.331. Statement of Intent In areas where industrial development has already occurred, Heavy Industrial Districts are established. It shall be the purpose of such districts to provide employment to the region and contribute to the tax base of the City. Development within such districts shall be encouraged through minimal environmental controls on use and intensity of use, such controls to be limited to accepted standards for environmental conditions and aesthetic control along the perimeter of such districts when abutting residential districts. 5.332. Uses Permitted 1. Any uses permitted or permitted on appeal in the M-1 District (light industrial). 2. Public Utilities 3. Jails and correctional institutions 4. Police and fire stations 5. Business service establishments 6. Equipment rental agencies 7. Motor vehicle service stations 8. Heavy vehicular repair facilities 9. Quarrying, processing, storage, and/or sale of stone and related products 10. Research or testing laboratories  39  11. Scrap processing, auto wrecking, and junk yards 12. Warehousing and distribution, including wholesale business 13. Communication transmitting and receiving facilities 14. Heliport 15. Principal supply utilities 16. Sewerage facilities 17. Accessory uses and structures 18. Signs as regulated in Section 6.21 5.333. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. Any industrial, service or commercial use, except those which in the opinion of the building inspector would cause noise, smoke, gas, vibration, fume, dust or other objectionable conditions which would effect a considerable portion of the City. 2. Tanks for storage of gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil, and other inflammable liquids or gases. Such tanks shall not be less than 1,000 feet from any residential districts. 3. Commercial convenience and other business uses associated with the industrial character of the district or providing services necessary for the operation of such industrial uses. 5.334. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. All uses permitted on appeal in the M-2 District shall be in compliance with the intent of the District as expressed in Section 5.331. 2. Uses permitted on appeal shall conform with the standards set forth in Section 8.512. 3. Uses permitted on appeal shall be in compliance with environmental conditions as set forth in Section 5.336. 5.335. Uses Prohibited Uses prohibited in the M-1 District unless the Planning Commission and the City Council rule otherwise. 5.336. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, and Yard-Environmental Conditions 1. It is the intent of this operation that lots of sufficient size be provided for any permitted or conditional use, provided however, that such shall have adequate space for normal operations, plus required space for yards, off-street parking, loading and unloading. Maximum total building are shall not exceed 35% of total lot area. 2. If access to community sewage system is not available, a larger minimum area is required to meet the percolation standards for the Barbour County Board of Health, which shall prevail. 3. Emit no smoke unless approval has been obtained from the Alabama Air Pollution Control Commission. 4. Discharge into the air no dust or other particles, matter created by an Industrial operation or emanating from any products stored prior to or subsequent to processing unless permission has been secured from the Alabama Air Pollution Control Commission. 40  5. Produce no heat or glare humanly perceptible at or beyond the lot boundaries. 6. Utilize all lighting in a manner which produces no glare on public streets or on any other parcel. 7. Produce no physical vibrations humanly perceptible at or beyond the lot boundaries. 8. Produce no electromagnetic radiation or radioactive emissions injuries to human beings or animals or vegetation of any intensity that interferes with the lawful use of any property. 9. Do not engage in the production or storage of any material designed for use as an explosive, nor in the use of such materials in production. 10. Do not discharge into any stream system or public sewer system any industrial waste, trailing, or unusable byproducts which will cause serious water pollution, overburden the existing public facilities, or be harmful in any way to the normal sewage treatment process. 11. The required lot area, lot width, yard size and setbacks which pertain to the M-1 District shall apply in the M-2 District. 12. The required off-street parking and off-set loading and unloading as regulated in Sections 6.22 and 6.23 respectfully. 5.34. PH-1, Professional Office/Historic District  5.341. Statement of Intent The intent of this district is to provide for the protection of areas located near the Historic Central Business District that generally contain older or historic structures utilized for various residential or professional/commercial uses. It is intended that this district will encourage the preservation of residential uses which are in standard condition as well as provide for the development of professional offices which complement the adjoining residential uses. 5.342. Uses Permitted 1. Uses permitted in the R-3 District and subject to the requirements thereof. 2. Business, professional offices and personal services such as: Accountants offices Doctors and dentists offices Insurance offices Real estate offices  Banks and branch offices Government offices 3. Civic organizations 4. Cultural and Community facilities. 5. Outpatient clinics 5.343. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. Personal services such as: Beauty and Barber Shops Restaurants (fully enclosed, no drive-in)  41  2. Retail uses such as: Antique shops, art supply, appliance stores Bakeries, book stores Clothing stores, craft shops Fabric stores, flower shops 5.344. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. All uses permitted on appeal should be in compliance with the intent of this district as expressed in Section 5.341. 2. All uses permitted on appeal must conform to the standards set forth in Section 8.512 5.345. Uses Prohibited Uses prohibited in the C-3 District: 5.346. Required Lot Size, Area, Width and Setbacks:  Minimum Lot Width: 80 ft. Front Lot Line: 20 ft. Front Building Line: 40 ft. Minimum Front Yard: 35 ft. Minimum Side Yard: 25 ft. Minimum Rear Yard: 25 ft. Off-street parking requirements as regulated in Section 6.22 of the Zoning ordinance. 5.347. Height of Buildings  5.35. E-1, Estate District  5.351. Statement of Intent The intent of this district is to provide for the preservation of larger sized residential tracts in the outlying areas of the City; and to provide for the preservation of prime agricultural/forestry lands and the natural and scenic areas needed for outdoor recreation and open space. 5.352. Uses Permitted 1. Single-family dwellings. 2. Customary accessory building or structures. 3. General and specialized farming, forestry, and agricultural uses, except commercial feed lots and poultry farms. 4. Roadside stands for the sale of goods and produce raised on the farm premises. 5. Riding stables and academies. 6. Parks, playgrounds, general recreation facilities, golf courses and club houses. 7. Churches and other places of worship, 8. Schools offering general education courses. 9. Hospital, sanitariums, nursing homes, and orphanages. 42  5.353. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. Clubs operated and owned by non-profit corporations. 2. Home Occupations. 3. Resorts and campgrounds  4. Airports  5. Accessory structure or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned special exceptions. 6. Day Care Home, subject to the requirement of Section 6.6. 5.355. Uses Prohibited All such uses not specifically stated. 5.356. Required Lot Size, Width and Setbacks  Minimum Lot Size: 1 acre Front Lot Width at Building Line: 150 feet Front Yard Requirement: 40 feet Rear Yard Requirement: 40 feet Side Yard Requirement: 25 feet 5.357. Height of Buildings See heights as permitted in the R-1 District. All heights as permitted in the C-1 Districts. 5.36. R-2A, Medium Density Residential  5.361. Statement of Intent The intent of this district is to promote a quality living environment through the provision of land for various medium density residential uses to include single-family residential, townhouse developments, patio home developments, and duplex, and quadri-plex developments on medium-density lots appropriate to the environmental character of the residential district; and to provide essential community facilities and services for such residential uses. Residential uses permitted in this district must be served with municipal water and sewer facilities and have access to major collector roadways. 5.362. Uses Permitted 1. Single-family dwellings on lots served by municipal water and sewer. 2. Two-family dwellings on lots served by municipal water and sewer. 3. Townhouse developments on lots served by municipal water and sewer and subject to the provisions of Section 5.237, however under this zone designation approval of the Board of Adjustment is not a requirement, but the plan shall be approved by the Planning Commission as to compliance with all zoning regulations. 4. Duplex and quadri-plex developments on lots served by municipal water and sewer. The plan for this type development shall be approved by the Planning Commission as to compliance with all zoning regulations. 43  5. Churches, schools, and public facilities. 6. On-site signs only in accordance with the provisions specified in Section 6.71. 5.363. Uses Permitted on Appeal 1. Public parks and recreational facilities, public utilities. 2. Associated accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to the use permitted on appeal. 3. Home occupations, only in accordance with the provisions specified in Article 6.24. 4. Day Care Homes, subject to the requirements of Section 6.6. 5.364. Standards for Uses Permitted on Appeal in R-2A Districts  1. All uses permitted on appeal in an R-2A District shall be in compliance with the intent of these district regulations as expressed in Section 5.361. 2. Uses permitted on appeal not directly related to the promotion of a quality living environment and not classified as providing essential facilities and services for residences of this district shall not be issued by the Board of Adjustment. 3. Non-residential uses permitted on appeal defined as compatible in an R-2A Residential District shall have property access to an identified collector street. 4. The use of exterior lighting systems for uses permitted on appeal in an R-2A Residential District shall be allowable only on approval of the Board of Adjustment. Such systems, if approved, must be so designed as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises and streets. 5. Hours of operation for non-residential uses permitted on appeal in an R-2A Residential District may be limited by the Board of Adjustment to further promote the intent of this ordinance. 6. All uses permitted on appeal must meet the general criteria established in Section 8.512 of the Zoning Ordinance. 7. Non-residential uses shall conform to the off-street parking requirements as set forth in Section 6.22. 5.365. Uses Prohibited 1. Mobile Homes. 2. Commercial and industrial uses not specifically permitted. 3. Multi-family (five or more) dwellings or any dwelling more than two stories tall from the ground level. 5.366. Required Lot Area, Lot Width, Yards and Building Areas Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements:  Minimum required lot area:  Single-family dwellings: 10,000 sq. ft.  Two-family dwellings: 12,000 sq. ft.  Three-family dwellings: 14,000 sq. ft.  44   Four-family dwellings: 16,000 sq. ft.  Each additional unit: 2,000 sq. ft. Residential uses permitted in this district must be served with municipal water and sewer facilities. Minimum required corner lot width at building line:  Single-family house: 75 ft.  Two-family dwellings: 95 ft.  Three or Four-family dwellings: 105 ft. Minimum required inside lot width at building line:  Single-family dwellings: 60 ft.  Two residences: 80 ft.  Three or Four residences: 100 ft. Minimum corner lot yard width from all streets: 30 ft. Minimum required depth of front yard: 30 ft. Minimum required width of each side yard:  for single family residences: 10 ft. Minimum required with of each side yard for:  two, three, or four family residences: 12 ft. Minimum required rear yard: 35 ft. Maximum total building area of total lot: 35 percent Accessory structures: rear and side yard: 3 ft. CONCEPTUAL PLAN Prior to granting any R-2A zoning, the property owner must submit to the Planning Commission a conceptual plan acceptable to the Commission detailing types and number of dwellings to be constructed in relationship to proposed streets. Only that parcel of land included within the submitted conceptual plan may be zoned R2-A. Once the conceptual plan is approved, no changes may be made in the layout of streets, types and number of dwellings and the locations of said dwellings in relationship to the streets without reapproval of the Planning Commission. 5.367. Height of Buildings All heights permitted in and regulated by the provisions for an R-1 Residential District for single family dwellings. 45  ARTICLE SIX GENERAL AND SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS Section 6.1. General Provisions  6.11. Future Street Lines and Points of Access  6.111. Future Street Lines: On any lot which, at the time of adoption of this Ordinance or at the time this Ordinance is changed by amendment hereafter, may be reduced in area by widening a public street to a future street line as indicated on the duly adopted "Major Street Plan", or as same may be hereafter amended, the minimum required yards, the minimum required lot area, the minimum required lot width, and the maximum building area shall be measured by considering the future street lines as the lot line of such lot. 6.112. Points of Access: In order to promote the safety of the motorist and pedestrian and to minimize traffic congestion and conflict by reducing the points of contact, the following Regulations shall apply:  a. A point of access, i.e., a drive or other opening for vehicles onto a street shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in width. b. There shall be no more than two (2) points of access to any one (1) public street on a lot of any width. Lots less than one hundred (100) feet in width shall have no more than one (1) point of access to any one (1) Public street. c. No point of access shall be allowed within fifteen (15) feet of the right-of-way of any public street intersection. d. The area existing between the street and an interior parking space or driveway parallel to the street shall have a curb at least six (6) inches in height and four (4) inches in width separating that parking area from the sidewalk and located in such a manner to prevent encroachment of vehicles onto the public right-of-way including the sidewalk. e. No curbs on city streets or rights-of-way shall be cut or altered without written approval of the Building Inspector. 6.12. Rear Yard Abuts a Public Street When the rear yard of a lot abuts a public street, all buildings or structures in that rear yard shall observe the same setback from the street line or property line as required for adjacent properties which front on that street. In addition, any structure located within twenty-five (25) feet of that setback line shall observe the side yard requirements of the adjoining properties fronting on that street. 6.13. Obstruction to Vision at Street Intersections Prohibited In all districts, on a corner lot within the area formed by the center lines of streets or street and railroad, at a distance of seventy-five (75) feet from such intersection, there shall be no obstruction to vision between a height of two and one-half (2 1/2) feet and a height of ten (10) feet above the average grade of each street or railroad at the center line thereof. The requirements of this subsection shall not be deemed to prohibit any necessary retaining wall. 46  The Board of Adjustment may reduce this requirement where safety conditions will not be impaired. 6.14. Rear Dwelling Prohibited No accessory structure or building in the rear of the principle building on the same lot may be used for residential purposes unless upon written approval of the Board of Adjustment. In Residential Districts there shall be only one main principal building per lot. 6.15. Location of Accessory Buildings and Structures Accessory buildings and structures may be erected on the Lot, however, such buildings and structures shall be located so is to comply with the following requirements and only pursuant to a building permit issued for that purpose. 6.151. No accessory building or structure shall be erected in any required front or side yard and shall not occupy more than thirty (30) percent of any required rear yard. Accessory buildings and structures shall be at least three (3) feet from all lot lines and from any other building on the same lot. 6.152. No accessory building or structure not an integral part of the principal building shall be located within sixty (60) feet from the front lot line. 6.153. In the case of a corner lot adjoined in the rear by a lot facing the side street, the accessory building or structure shall be located in such a manner as to conform with the front and side yard requirements of the adjoining lot. 6.154. Swimming and wading pools with a depth of one foot or more in any portion of the pool, and not located within a permanently and completely walled structure, shall be placed no closer than ten (10) feet to any property line and shall be completely fenced off from the ground, up to a height of at least five feet. Gates and fences shall be so constructed and of such materials so as to prevent the entry of children into the pool area. Gates shall be provided with adequate locking devices and shall be locked at all times when pool is not in use. 6.155. In the event that the Board of Adjustments is requested to waive the requirements of Section 6.15, the Board may impose reasonable requirements as to screening and other features of the development as are deemed necessary to protect property and minimize objectionable conditions. 6.16. Access to Public Streets  6.161. In residential, commercial and industrial districts, every use, building or structure established after the effective date of this ordinance shall be on a lot or parcel which adjoins a public street or highway or a street on a subdivision plat approved by the Planning Commission. 6.162. All structures shall be located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for servicing, fire protection and required off-street parking. 47  6.17. Fences, Walls and Hedges Notwithstanding other provisions of this ordinance, fences, walls, and hedges may be permitted in any required yards, or along the edge of any yard, provided that on corner lots no fence, wall or hedge along the sides or front edge of any front yard shall be over three and one-half (3 1/2) feet in height. 6.18. Essential Community Facilities and Services 6.181. Nothing in this ordinance shall prohibit the provision of essential services such as gas, electric or telephone, provided the installation of such facility or service does not violate any other applicable provision of this ordinance. However, nothing in this subsection shall be construed to permit the erection, construction, or enlargement of any building, tower or substation or maintenance depot for provision of an essential community facility or service except as otherwise permitted in this Ordinance. Section 6.2. Supplemental Provisions  6.21. Off-Street Parking Requirements In all districts, there shall be provided at the time any building, structure, or use is established, enlarged, or increased in capacity, off-street parking spaces for motor vehicles with the requirements herein specified. Such off-street parking spaces shall be maintained and shall not be encroached upon by structures or other uses so long as the principle building, structure, or use remains, unless an equivalent number of such spaces are provided elsewhere in conformance with this ordinance. 6.211. Plans Plans and specifications showing required off-street parking spaces, including the means of access and interior circulation, shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review at the time of application for a building permit for the erection or enlargement of a building. 6.212. Location of off-Street Parking Areas With the exception of uses in the Central Business District, required off-street parking facilities shall be located on the same lot as the principle building and within three hundred (300) feet thereof except that this distance shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) feet for single-family and two-family dwellings. The distance specified shall be measured from the nearest point of the parking facility to the nearest point of the building or use that such facility is required to serve. 6.213. Parking in Residential Districts Parking of motor vehicles in residential districts shall be limited to passenger vehicles, and not more than one commercial vehicle of the light delivery type, not to exceed three-fourths (3/4) ton shall be permitted per dwelling unit. The parking of any other type of commercial vehicle, except for those parked on school or church property, is prohibited in a residential zone. 6.214. Off-Street Parking Area Design Each off-street parking space for automobiles shall be not less than nine (9) feet by eighteen (18) feet in area, exclusive of access drives or aisles, and shall be of usable shape and condition. 48  There shall be provided a minimum access drive of ten (10) feet in width, and where a turning radius is necessary, it will be of such an arc as to reasonably allow an unobstructed flow of vehicles. Parking aisles for automobiles shall be of sufficient width to allow a minimum turning movement in and out of parking space. The minimum width of such aisles shall be:  a. For ninety (90) degree or perpendicular parking, the aisle shall not be less than twenty-two (22) feet in width. b. For sixty (60) degree parking, the aisle shall not be less than eighteen (18) feet. c. For forty-five (45) degree parking, the aisle shall not be less than thirteen (13) feet in width. d. For parallel parking, the aisle shall not be less than twelve (12) feet in width. All off-street parking spaces shall not be closer than five (5) feet to any property line except where a wall, fence, or compact planting strip exists as a parking barrier along the property line. All off-street parking areas shall be drained so as to prevent drainage to abutting properties and shall be constructed of materials which will have a dust-free surface resistance to erosion. Any lighting fixtures used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from any adjoining premises and streets. Any off-street parking area providing space for five (5) or more vehicles shall be effectively screened on any side which adjoins or faces property adjoining a residential lot or institution, by a wall, fence or compact planting not less than four 4 feet in height. Plantings shall be maintained in good condition and not encroach on adjoining property. All off-street parking areas that make it necessary for vehicles to back out directly into a public road are prohibited, except that this prohibition shall not apply to off-street parking areas of one or two-family dwellings. 6.215 Collective Parking Requirements for the provision of parking facilities with respect to two or more property uses of the same or different types may be satisfied if the permanent allocation of the requisite number of spaces designated is not less than the sum of individual requirements. 6.216. Determining Requirements For the purpose of determining requirements the following units of measure shall apply: (1). Floor area: In the case where floor area is the unit for determining the required number of off-street parking spaces, said unit shall mean the gross floor area, except that such-floor area need not include any area used for parking within the principal building and need not include any area used for incidental service storage, installations of mechanical equipment, penthouse housing ventilators and heating systems, and similar uses. 49  (2). Places of Assembly: In stadiums, sports arenas, churches, and other places of assembly, in which those in attendance occupy benches, pews, or other similar seating facilities, each eighteen (18) inches of such seating facilities shall be counted as one (1) seat. In cases where a place of assembly has both fixed seats and open assembly area, requirements shall be computed separately for each type and added together. (3). Fractions: When units of measurement determining the number of required parking spaces result in requirement of a fraction space, any fraction up to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded and fractions over one-half (1/2) shall require one (1) parking space. 6.217. Schedule of Off-Street Parking Spaces The minimum required off-street parking spaces shall be as set forth in the following Schedule of Off-Street Parking Spaces. Where a use is not specifically mentioned, the parking requirements of a similar or related use shall apply:  USE      PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS Automobile or Machinery One (1) space for each two hundred (200) Sales & Service Garages square feet of showroom floor area plus   one (1) space for each employee. Banks, Business, and      One (1) space for each two hundred (200) Professional offices square feet of gross floor area. Barber Shops and Beauty Parlors One and one-half spaces for each one   employee. Bowling Alleys     Seven (7) spaces for each alley. Churches, Auditoriums, Stadiums, One (1) space for each three (3) seats plus Sports Arenas, Theaters, Dance one for each employee Halls, Assembly Halls other than   Schools  Dwelling Unit Two (2) spaces for each family or dwelling   unit. Funeral Homes and Mortuaries   Four (4) spaces for each parlor or one (1)                space for fifty (50) square feet of floor area       plus one (1) space for each fleet vehicle. Furniture, Appliance Stores,    One (1) space for each two hundred (200) Household Equipment and  square feet of floor area, plus one space for furniture Repair Shops      each employee exclusive of fleet vehicles. Hospitals            One (1) space for each bed including bassinets plus one (1) space for each employee, exclusive of emergency or fleet vehicles. Hotels. Motels, Lodging One (1) space for living unit plus one (1)  50  Houses, Boarding Homes space for each employee. Automobile, Service Stations One (1) space for each four  hundred (400) square feet of floor area plus one per pump, plus one for each employee. Manufacturing, Fabricating, One (1) space for each one employee on Processing, and Bottling Plants,  maximum shift. Research and Testing Laboratories Medical and Dental Clinics One (1) space for each two hundred (200) square feet of floor area plus one (1) space for each employee. Restaurants, Beer Parlors,  One (1) space for each three (3) patrons of Taverns, and Night Clubs maximum seating capacity plus one (1) space for each one employee. Self-service Laundry or   One (1) space for each two (2) washing and/or Dry Cleaning Stores    dry cleaning machines. Elementary and Junior High    One (1) space for each employee normally Schools, Private and Public     engaged in or about the building or grounds plus    one (1) space for each thirty (30) students enrolled. Senior High School and Institutions One (1) space for each employee in or about of Higher Learning, Private or Public the building or grounds plus one (1) space for   each ten (10) students. Supermarket, self-service   One (1) space for each two hundred (200) square and Discount Stores feet floor area plus one for each employee. Wholesale Establishments One (1) space for each four hundred (400) and Warehouses   square feet of floor area plus one for each                employee. 6.218. Exception The parking requirements for all uses proposed on a lot shall be cumulative, unless the City Engineer's Office shall find that the parking requirements of a particular mix of land uses occur at different hours, so that a particular parking area can be advantageously used during non-conflicting hours by the other uses. In such an event, the required parking space for such particular land use may be reduced by the City Engineer's Office to the maximum number of spaces required for the remaining uses requiring simultaneous parking. Section 6.22. Off-street Loading and Unloading Requirements In connection with every building, structure, or use hereafter erected, except single and two- family dwelling unit structures, which customarily receive or distribute material or merchandise by vehicle, there shall be provided on the same lot with such buildings, off-street loading and unloading space. 51  6.221. Plans Plans and specifications showing required loading and unloading spaces including the means of ingress and egress and interior circulation shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review at the time of application for a Building Permit. 6.222. Off-Street Loading Area Design Each off-street loading and unloading space shall not be less than twelve (12) feet in width and fifty-five (55) feet in length with not less than fifteen (15) feet in height clearance. Any loading-unloading space shall not be closer than fifty (50) feet to any lot located in any residential district unless wholly within a completely enclosed building or unless screened on all sides by a wall, fence or compact planting not less than six (6) feet in height. All off-street loading and unloading facilities that make it necessary to back out directly into a public road shall be prohibited. 6.223. Off-Street Loading Area Space Requirements In the case of mixed uses on one lot or parcel, the total requirements for off-street loading- unloading facilities shall be the sum of the various uses computed separately. All retail sales facilities having up to five thousand (5,000) square feet of gross floor area shall be provided with at least one (1) off-street loading-unloading space, and for every additional twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross floor space, or fraction thereof, one (1) additional loading-unloading space. All industrial and wholesale commercial land uses shall provide one (1) loading space for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor space, with a minimum of not less than two (2) loading spaces. Section 6.23. Home Occupations A home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes. The following additional conditions shall be observed: (a). Such home occupation shall be carried on by the owner-occupant within the dwelling or within a building accessory thereto and not occupy more than 25% of the gross floor area. (b). Shall be permitted on appeal in the FAR, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MHR, and the MH Districts, (c). No article shall be sold nor any service offered which must be utilized and/or performed on the property outside of the internal confines, excluding open areas, of the home. There shall be no exterior storage of materials or equipment. (d). No nuisances shall be generated by heat, glare, noise, smoke, vibration, noxious fumes, odors, vapors, gases, or other matter at any time. (e). It is the intent of this Section to limit home occupations in Residential Districts to unobtrusive, innocuous and inoffensive activities that have no effect or impact upon the physical and natural amenities of the neighborhood or affect the resident's ability to maintain  52  the quiet enjoyment of their homes, property, streets, and neighborhood, and which do not materially increase the amount of traffic and/or parking in the general neighborhood. (f). A home occupation shall not include a beauty parlor, furniture upholstery, office for any professional, or office in a building. Section 6.24. Storage of Materials The location or storage of abandoned, discarded, unused, unusable, or inoperative vehicles, appliances, furniture, equipment, or material shall be regulated as follows:  6.241. On any lot in the Forestry-Agriculture-Residential District, Residential Districts or Commercial District, the owner or tenant, but not for hire or for business, shall locate and store such materials within a completely enclosed building. On any lot in any commercial or industrial district, the owner or tenant, whether or not for hire or for business, shall locate and store such materials within a completely enclosed building or within an area surrounded by a solid, unpierced fence or wall at least seven (7) feet in height and not less in height than the materials located or stored therein, and not closer to the lot lines than the minimum yard requirements for buildings permitted in said districts. 6.242 Storage of Commercial and Recreation Vehicles and Trailers Commercial and recreational vehicles and trailers shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in a Residential District except in accordance with the following requirements:  1. Travel trailers, motor homes, boats and hauling trailers (other than commercial trailers) shall be permitted if parked or stored behind the front yard building line. 2. No more than one commercial vehicle per dwelling shall be permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline or liquefied petroleum products be permitted. 3. Nothing in this Ordinance shall permit the storage or parking of any vehicle or non- permanent structure within the required front yard of any lot within a residential district, except that the parking of a passenger vehicle on a driveway located on private property shall not be prohibited. Section 6.25 Performance Standards 6.251. No lot, building, or structure in any district shall be used in any manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable element or condition so as to adversely affect the surrounding area or adjoining premises. Uses in all districts, where permitted, shall comply with the following performance requirements:  (a). Noise: Noise which is objectionable due to volume, frequency, or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled so that there is no production of sound discernible at lot lines in excess of the average intensity of street and traffic noise at the lot lines. Air raid sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes are exempt from this requirement. 53  (b). Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without instruments on any adjoining lot or property, (c). Smoke: Smoke shall not be emitted unless such emission is in accordance with the requirement of the Alabama Air Pollution Control Commission. (d). Odor: No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which is offensive, or as to produce a public nuisance or hazard on any adjoining lot or property. (e). Air Pollution: No pollution of air by fly-ash, dust, vapors, or other substances shall be permitted which is harmful to health, animals, vegetation, or other property, or which can cause excessive soiling. (f). Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is visible from any property or from any public street, road or highway. (g). Erosion: No erosion, by either wind or water, shall be permitted which will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties, lakes, ponds, rivers, or streams. 6.252. Enforcement a. Where, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, a proposed use may not conform to these performance standards, the applicant shall submit a description of the machinery, process, and products and specifications for the mechanisms and techniques to be used in meeting the performance standards. b. The Zoning Administrator may refer the application to one or more expert consultants qualified to advise as to whether a proposed use will conform to the performance standards. c. The costs of such services shall be borne by the applicant, and a copy of any report shall be furnished by the applicant to the Zoning Administrator. SECTION 6.26. Cash Advance/Payday Loan and Title Pawn Establishments   Because of their very nature, cash advance/payday loan and title pawn establishments are recognized, particularly when several are concentrated in a given area, to have deleterious effects upon adjacent areas. Therefore, not more than two (2) such uses shall be permitted within 2500 feet of each other. Nor shall any such use be located closer than 500 feet of any residential district, school, park or church. (Amended 10/6/14; Ord. 2014-10) Section 6.3. Special Use Permits The formulation and enactment of this Ordinance is based upon the division of the City of Eufaula into districts in each of which are permitted specified uses which are mutually compatible. In addition to such permitted compatible uses, however, there are certain other uses which may be necessary or desirable to allow in certain locations in certain districts, but because of their actual or potential impact on neighboring uses or public facilities, need to be carefully regulated with respect to their location for the protection of the City of Eufaula. Such uses, on account of their peculiar locational need or the nature of the service offered, may have to be established in a district in which they cannot be reasonably allowed as a permitted use. 54  6.31. Authority to Grant Permits The Board of Adjustments as hereinafter provided shall have the authority to grant special use permits, subject to such conditions of design, operation, and safeguards as they may determine for all special uses specified in the various district provisions of this Ordinance. 6.32. Application and Fee Application for any special use permit permissible under the provisions of this Ordinance shall be made to the Board of Adjustments through the Zoning Administrator by filing an official special use permit application form; submitting required data, exhibits, and information; and depositing the required fee as established by resolution of the City Council, except that no fee shall be required of any governmental body or agency. No part of such fee shall be returnable to the applicant. 6.33. Data, Exhibits, and Information Required in Application An application for a special use permit shall contain the applicant's name and address in full, a statement that the applicant is the owner involved or is acting on the owner's behalf, the address of the property involved; the names and addresses of all adjacent property owners as determined from tax records at the County Courthouse; an accurate survey drawing of the subject property showing the existing and proposed location of all structures thereon, the types thereof and their uses; and a statement of supporting data, exhibits, information, and evidence regarding the required findings set forth in this ordinance. 6.34. Public Hearings The Board of Adjustments shall hold a public hearing upon any application for a special use permit, notice of which shall be given two consecutive weeks prior to the hearing by posting in a manner similar to that used for posting ordinances in the City of Eufaula. The Board of Adjustments shall also notify property owners adjacent to the subject property in writing by first class mail at least one week prior to the date of the public hearing. 6.35. Required Standards and Findings for Making Determinations The Board of Adjustments shall review the particular circumstances and facts of each proposed use in terms of the following standards and required findings, and shall find and record adequate data, information, and evidence showing that such a use on the proposed site, lot, or parcel meets the following requirements: (a). Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives, intent, and purposes of this ordinance. (b). Will be designed, constructed, operated, maintained, and managed so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with existing or intended character of the general area. (c). Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services, such as: highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures, refuse disposal, or that the persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately any such service. (d). Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring uses. (e). Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for public facilities and services. 55  6.36. Determination and Imposition of Conditions If the facts in the case do not establish beyond a reasonable doubt that the findings and standards set forth in this ordinance will apply to the proposed use, the Board of Adjustments shall not grant a special use permit. When granting a special use permit, the Board of Adjustments shall require such conditions of use as it deems necessary to protect the best interest of the City and the surrounding property, and to achieve the objectives of this ordinance. 6.37. Approval, Grant or Permit Upon holding a public hearing and the finds that the requirements of this subsection of this ordinance have or have not been satisfactorily met by the applicant, the Board of Adjustments shall within thirty (30) days approve or disapprove the application, If approved, a Special Use Permit shall be issued to the applicant. The Board of Adjustments shall forward a copy of the permit to the applicant, City Clerk, Zoning Administrator, and City Council. Failure to act within thirty (30) days shall be interpreted as approval by default and notice of such occurrence shall be forwarded to the Council with their copy of the permit. The Board of Adjustments may extend the review period for not more than fifteen (15) days, by giving written notice to the applicant, for the purposes of collecting additional data which will be significant in reaching a final decision. The Administrator shall not issue a building permit until he has received a copy of the Special Use Permit approved by the Board of Adjustment. 6.38. Voiding of Special Use Permits Any special use permit granted under this ordinance shall become null and void and fees forfeited unless construction and/or use is commenced within 180 days (6 months) and completed within 545 days (18 months) of the date of issuance. A violation of a requirement, condition, or safeguard shall be considered a violation of this ordinance and grounds for the Board of Adjustments to terminate and cancel such conditional use permit. Section 6.4. Reserved Section 6.5. Site Plan Review and Approval  6.51. Statement of Intent: It is recognized by this Ordinance that there is a value to the public in establishing safe and convenient traffic movement to higher density sites, both within the site and in relation to access streets; that there is value in encouraging a harmonious relationship of buildings and uses both within a site and in relation to adjacent uses; further that there are benefits to the public in conserving natural resources, Toward this end, by this Ordinance, the council shall request site plan review by the Planning Commission for all land development that can be expected to have a significant impact on natural resources, traffic patterns, and on adjacent land usage. For purpose of this Ordinance land development shall mean: (a). The improvement of one or more contiguous lots, tracts or parcels of land for any purpose involving a group of two or more uses whose combined lot coverage exceeds 25%, or the division or allocation of land between or among two or more common areas; or  56  (b). A division of land into lots for the purpose of conveying such lots singularly or in groups to any person, partnership or corporation for the purpose of the erection of buildings by such person, partnership, or corporation. 6.52. Buildings, Structures, and Uses Requiring Site Plan. The Building Inspector shall not ' issue a Building Permit for the construction of the buildings and structures identified in this section unless a detailed site plan has been reviewed by the Planning Commission. 6.53. Application and Fee for Site Plan Review Any person may file a request for a site plan review by the Planning Commission by filing with the Zoning Administrator the completed application upon the forms furnished by the Zoning Administrator and payment of a fee established by resolution of the City Council, As an integral part of said application, the applicant shall file at least four (4) copies of a site plan. 6.54. Planning Commission Review of Site Plan Upon receipt of such application from the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission shall undertake a study of the same and shall, within thirty (30) days, approve or disapprove such site plan, advising the applicant in writing of the recommendation, including any changes or modifications in the proposed site plan as are needed to achieve conformity to the standards specified in this ordinance. 6.55. Required Data for Detailed Site Plan 6.551. Every site plan submitted to the Planning Commission shall be in accordance with the following requirements: (a). The site plan shall be of a scale not to be greater than one (1) inch equals twenty (20) feet nor less than one (1) inch equals two hundred (200) feet, and of such accuracy that the Planning Commission can readily interpret the site plan, and shall include more than one drawing where required for clarity. (b). The property shall be identified by lot lines and location, including dimensions, angles and size, and correlated with the legal description of said property. Such plan shall further include the name and address of the property owner, developer, and designer, and set forth the source of title by book and page number of the Probate Recording. (c). The site plan shall show the scale; north point; boundary dimensions; topography (at least two foot contour intervals); and natural features, such as-wood, lots, streams, rivers, lakes, drains, and similar features. (d). The site plan shall show existing manmade features, such as buildings; structures; high tension towers; pipe lines; and existing utilities, such as water and sewer lines, excavations, bridges, culverts, drains, and easements, and shall identify adjacent properties and their existing uses. (e). The site plan shall show the location, proposed finished floor and grade line elevations, size of proposed principle and accessory buildings, their relation one to another and to any existing structures on the site, the height of all buildings, and square footage of floor space. Site plans for residential development shall include a density schedule showing the number of  57  dwelling units per net acre, including a dwelling schedule showing the unit type and number of each unit type. (f). The site plan shall show the proposed streets, driveways, sidewalks and other vehicular and pedestrian circulation features within and adjacent to the site; also, the location, size and number of parking spaces in the off-street parking area, and the identification of service lanes and service parking. The site plan shall include tree survey, clearing plan, and protective measures including erosion and sediment control, wetlands protection, and tree preservation and mitigation where applicable. (g). The site plan shall show the proposed location, use and size of open spaces; and the location of any landscaping, fences or walls on the site. Any proposed alterations to the topography and other natural features shall be indicated. The site plan shall further show any proposed location of connections to existing utilities and proposed extensions thereof. A vicinity map shall be submitted showing the location of the site in relation to the surrounding street system. 6.56. Standards for Site Plan Review In reviewing the site plan, the Planning Commission shall ascertain whether the proposed site plan is consistent with all regulations of this Ordinance, Further, in consideration of each site plan, the Planning Commission shall find that provisions of this section of this Ordinance, as well as the provisions of the zoning district in which said building structures and uses as indicated in the proposed site plan, have been satisfactorily demonstrated and met by the application. 6.57. Approval of Site Plan Upon the Planning Commission's recommended approval of a site plan, the applicant shall file with the City Clerk one (1) copy thereof. The City Clerk shall transmit the site plan and any comments of the Planning Commission to the council at the next regular meeting. Upon approval the Clerk shall transmit to the Zoning Administrator one (1) copy with the Clerk's certificate affixed thereto, certifying that said approved site plan conforms to the provisions of this ordinance as determined. If the site plan is disapproved by the Planning Commission, notification of such disapproval shall be given to the applicant within ten (10) days after such Planning Commission action. The Building Inspector shall not issue a Building Permit until he has received a certified-approved site plan. 6.58. Expiration of Site Plan Certificate The site plan certificate shall expire, and be of no effect, three hundred sixty-five (365) days after the date of issuance thereof, unless within such time the Zoning Administrator has issued a building permit. Work shall have actually commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days after the issuance of the building permit or prior to the expiration of the site plan certificate. 6.59. Amendment, Revision of Site Plan A site plan, and site plan certificate, issued thereon, may be amended upon the request of the applicant, Such amendment shall be made upon application and in accordance with the procedure provided in Section 6.5 of this Ordinance. 58  Section 6.6. Day Care Homes A child care facility which is a family home and which receives not more than six (6) children for care during the day, A Day Care Home shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes. The following additional conditions shall be observed by Day Care Homes as a condition to their continued existence as a Use Permitted on Appeal: (a). Such Day Care Homes shall be carried on by the owner/occupant within the dwelling, or on the immediate dwelling premises, or within a building accessory thereto and shall not occupy more than 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling. (b). No nuisance shall be generated by heat, glass, smoke, noise, vibration, noxious fumes, odors, vapors, gases, or other matter at any time, (c). The Board of Zoning Adjustments may require if it deems conditions warrant that outdoor play areas be sufficiently screened with materials and/or shrubs so as to protect the integrity of the neighborhood. (d). Any such permitted use shall always be conditional on said Day Care Home being operated in compliance with these provisions. Any aggrieved party shall have the right to bring to the attention of the Board of Zoning Adjustments a lack of compliance with these conditions, In the event the Board of Zoning Adjustments deems any Day Care Home operator to be in continued violation of these conditions, said permitted use on appeal shall be revoked. (e). Be permitted by Special Exception in the FAR, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MHR, MH, and E-1 Districts subject to the requirements of Section 8.512. Section 1: Article Six Section 6.61. Minimum Landscape Requirement  1). Purpose Purpose of this section is to protect and enhance the ecological and aesthetic environments of the City of Eufaula; provide for shade and natural cooling; control the erosion of soil and storm water runoff; buffer noise and glare; and contribute to property values. 2). Application of Section a. Landscaping requirements as set forth in the Tree and Landscape Ordinance shall become applicable to each building site or zone at the time an application for a building permit is made for a commercial, industrial, or multifamily apartment development located on any site in any zone; and to each of these zones or sites where the developer undertakes a commercial, industrial, or multifamily apartment existing development renovation or addition that increases the square footage by 50% or more. In the event that 50% or more by square footage of a single or multiple building classified as a commercial, industrial, or multifamily apartment is torn down and replaced with another singular or attached building then this requirement would also apply, regardless of the square footage contained in the replacement structure(s). In the event that multiple buildings exist in the form of singular and/or attached buildings on a given development parcel, then this requirement shall have application if the square footage of any singular or multiple building is increased by 50% or more. 59  b. The City of Eufaula may provide design assistance to assist in the design phases of the project and to review initial and final plans. c. All landscape installation must be completed before the development is opened to the public. The Horticulturist and/or Tree Commission will give compliance or noncompliance to landscaped areas before opening. The Horticulturist and/or Tree Commission will give a decision of compliance or noncompliance within seven (7) working days of the formal request for approval. In the event the development is scheduled to be opened between June first and October thirty-first in any given year, and provided that the developer has complied with the performance and guarantee Section of 6.61 (5i), then the developer will be entitled to a six month extension. d. Any new paving or asphalt parking lot project or expansion of existing parking lot within the city limits located in any commercial, industrial and multi-family zone or site must be in compliance with the landscaping parking lot requirements in Section 5b of this ordinance. 3). Definitions a. Desirable Tree - A tree that has DBH of at least 12 inches and is an oak, hickory, sycamore, pine, yellow poplar, sweet gum, elm, hackberry or sugarberry, magnolia, cypress, or a newly planted tree on a development site. b. Small Shade Tree - medium size tree of thirty (30) to forty (40) feet at mature height. c. Large Shade Tree - Tree that, at mature height, has the genetic characteristics to exceed fifty (50) feet in height. d. DBH - diameter at breast height - This is the measurement of the width of trunk 4 1/2 feet above existing grade. To find the diameter of trees with a measuring tape in inches, measure the circumference of the tree at 4.5 feet above ground level and divide by Pi (3.14). e. Drip Line - the circumference of the tree’s natural unaltered canopy extended vertically to the ground. f. Barrier - a physical structure limiting access to a protected area. g. Public Tree - a tree located on city property or any tree owned by the City of Eufaula, Alabama. This includes city rights-of-way. h. Caliper - This is the measurement of the width of the trunk 6” above existing grade. i. Tree Credits - means of crediting existing trees that would have to be planted, if existing trees could not be saved and protected as stated in this ordinance. j. Removing a tree - to relocate, cut down, kill through the use of herbicides, chemicals or other poisons, cut roots by trenching or grading too close to the tree base, or in any other manner destroy or cause to be destroyed, a tree as defined in this ordinance. Refer to citation procedure under Section 6.62, penalties and restitution section. k. Damaged Tree - A tree that has a damaged root system, trunk or has been noted as a damaged tree by the Horticulturist and/or Tree Commission, but tree does not die within a three-week time period and does not appear to be weakened by the damage. 60  l. Multi-family Zones or Sites - Multi-family includes homes that have a roof over more than two families. m. Critical Root Zone - The rooting area of a tree figured by allowing one (1) foot in radius of ground area on all sides of the tree for each one (1) inch of DBH. n. Natural Area - Undisturbed areas of one-tenth (0.1) acre or more containing desirable, healthy native trees and vegetation. o. Tree - A woody plant having the ability at maturity, to generally attain a height of thirty (30’) foot or more. p. “Damage to Tree” - Damage to tree(s) includes the cutting of roots; the compaction of roots; bark or trunk injury; the changing of grade around the tree(s) including piling of three or more inches of soil or dirt around the tree(s) dripline and/or lowering the grade around the dripline of the tree(s); spraying, pouring or applying chemical to the tree(s); improper pruning of the tree(s). q. Stump - The part of the tree remaining above the ground after the main trunk has been cut down. 4). Landscape Plan Approval A landscape plan shall be submitted for approval at the time that an application for a Building Permit is made on any land where the landscaping requirements of this Section are applicable. The landscape plan shall include: a. Date, scale, north arrow, title and name of owner. b. Approximate location of existing boundary lines and dimensions of building site. c. An accurate tree survey of the development parcel showing the location, species, and size of all trees twelve (12) inches and greater at DBH with a designation as to which trees are to be retained. The survey should show the number of all trees six- (6) inches and greater located in natural areas so designated by the developer. d. The approximate center line of existing water-course; the approximate location of significant drainage features; and the location and size of existing and proposed streets and alleys, existing and proposed utility easements on or adjacent to the building site, and existing and proposed sidewalks adjacent to streets. e. The location and size of proposed landscape areas, in square feet. f. The location, number, size and name of proposed landscape material. g. Statistics verifying that the minimum percentage of landscaping required under this Section will be met. h. An indication, using written or graphic information, of how the applicant plans to protect existing trees and other vegetation which are proposed to be retained from damage during construction. i. The proposed irrigation type and design, if required. 61  j. Installation process for all landscape material. k. Certification that the landscape plan has been prepared or reviewed by one of the following: a registered landscape architect, professional engineer, architect, landscape designers, full time builder designer, a qualified nursery man, the County Agent, or any Governmental Agency with horticulture experience, and that it satisfies all purposes, objectives and requirements of this Section. l. Flagging and barrier system as covered in Section 5.(h). m. Permanent utility facility locations. n. Provide owner’s signature on plan. o. Property owner shall be required to read and understand the “Tree Protection During Construction” booklet provided by the City of Eufaula Horticulture Department or Building Department at the time a plan for landscaping is approved. Any questions about the booklet can be addressed to the horticulturist and/or any Tree Commission member. The property owners’ signature shall be required on a letter stating that the “Tree Protection During Construction” document has been read and is understood. 5). Landscaping Requirements: a. Landscaping Percentage Requirements. Any building site meeting the requirements of this section shall be landscaped. Landscaping materials shall cover fifteen (15) percent of the total building site as determined first by calculating the square footage of the unimproved site, then subtracting therefrom the total square footage of the building area. At least 60% of the landscape requirements shall be located in the front set back defined as the area between the property line and the building wall(s) facing the public right-of-way. To determine the number of shade trees required on any building lot, first add the length of all sides of the lot then divide the total by 30. If the result ends in a fraction, the result as expressed in numbers shall be rounded off to the next highest whole number to arrive at the total number of shade trees required. No less than one half, rounded to the next highest whole number, of the required trees shall be large shade trees. With the exception of building sites where the developer increases the square footage of the building by fifty (50) percent or more, the developer/owner must reserve the first twenty (20) feet of the front yard setback requirement of the zoning district for a green space where at least one large shade tree shall be planted for every thirty feet of road frontage, with the exception of where primary power lines occur. In these areas, small shade trees are allowed. Planted trees must have a 1 ½ - 2” caliper. All planted trees immediately become desirable trees. After the application of credits the City Horticulturist may waive any number of trees not required due to site characteristics. If waived, these trees shall then be donated to the City Horticulturist to be planted as public trees. b. Parking lot landscaping shall be provided in parking lot use areas having uncovered parking at street level. Such landscaping shall be provided in such a manner as to break up the expanse of paving, facilitate the safe circulation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and provide shade  62  valuable for pedestrians and/or vehicles. A ratio of one large shade tree for every ten (10) parking spaces shall be required. c. Site Visibility: Landscape material shall not obstruct traffic visibility at intersections, parking lot interiors and driveway entrances between heights of three (3) and eight (8) feet above grade. Existing trees must be pruned so that they do not obstruct traffic visibility at intersections and driveway entrances. d. Spacing: Trees shall not be planted closer than 4.5 feet to curbs or barriers protecting trees. Large shade trees shall not be planted closer than thirty (30) feet of each other and small shade trees a minimum of ten (10) to a maximum of twenty (20) feet of each other where possible. e. Installation: All plant material shall be installed in a sound manner and in accordance with the landscape plan. This installation process shall be included on the landscape plan to be approved by the city horticulturist. No large shade trees shall be planted within twenty (20) feet of the centerline of primary utility lines. f. Maintenance: Landscaped areas shall be maintained by the owner or lessee of the property at all times. This includes prompt replacement of all dead or damaged landscape material to insure continued compliance with landscaping requirements. This also applies to rights-of-way or medians for developers who elect to take credits for landscaping requirements here. g. Water Supply: All landscape areas need to be readily accessible to an adequate water supply located on the development parcel. This may include one or more of the following: hose bibs, automatic or manual irrigation, and/or any other appropriate method of supplying water to the landscape areas. h. Protection of Landscaped Areas: Landscaped areas are to be protected by concrete curbs, wheel stops, continuous border plants of hedgerows, railroad ties or other suitable barriers and landscape areas shall be detailed on the landscape plan. i. Performance Guarantee of Completion: The owner shall be responsible for ensuring that either he or his designated builder provides all required greenspace to the lot. This may be accomplished by the full installation of all required improvements at the time that the certification of occupancy is approved by the Horticulturist. In lieu of requiring the completion of all improvements prior to opening (if opening is to occur between the dates of June 1st and October 31st), the Horticulturist and/or Tree Commission, may, at its discretion, accept from the owner or his designated builder a cash deposit or a letter of credit from a F.D.I.C. bank. The cash deposit or F.D.I.C. bank letter of credit for the construction and installation of improvements shall be in accordance with the preliminary plans approved by the Horticulturist and meet the following requirements: A) Value of Bond. The Performance Bond shall be in an amount not less than one hundred twenty-five (125%) percent of the cost of the remaining improvement(s) identified on the landscape plan. The bond shall be payable to the City and shall be in an amount established by  63  the Horticulturist and/or by the Tree Commission as sufficient to cover the entire cost of all remaining improvements, as estimated by the applicant, reviewed and recommended by the landscape contractor and approved by the Horticulturist and/or Tree Commission. B) Value of Cash deposit or F.D.I.C. Bank Letter of Credit. A cash or escrow deposit shall be in an amount not less than one hundred twenty five (125%) percent of the entire cost of all remaining improvements. Said full amount shall be estimated by the applicant, revised and recommended by the Landscape Contractor and approved by the Horticulturist and/or Tree Commission. To Complete Work. If within six (6) months after filing the performance bond and establishing the case account or providing F.D.I.C bank letter of credit, the owner/builder has not completed all necessary improvements; or if, in the opinion of the Horticulturist and/or Tree Commission, the improvements have not been satisfactorily installed, the cash account or F.D.I.C. bank letter of credit shall be used by the City of Eufaula to complete the improvements in satisfactory fashion, or the City may take steps as may be necessary to require performance under the bond. Any funds remaining after all work has been satisfactorily completed will be returned to the owner or his designated builder. The landscape contractor who estimated the cost of the work may be hired, if he is still willing to perform the work, to install the improvements as specified by the approved plans. As soon as feasible after the six-month time extension has expired, the landscape contractor, at the direction of the City, will begin improvements. In the event the landscape contractor who provided the work is not willing for any reason to install the improvements as specified by the approved plans for the amount of his original estimate, the City Horticulturist will then bid out the job. The landscape contractor will be paid from the bond fund. 6). Existing Tree Credits: Credit will be given for the retention and protection of any existing trees that are a desirable species, have good form, and are in healthy condition. Credit will not be allowed if proper protection is not maintained throughout the construction process. These tree credits can go toward landscape requirements; however, the front setback must contain one desirable tree for every thirty (30) feet of frontage. If any existing tree for which credit is received dies or fails to thrive, the owner must replace the number of trees credited for which credit was given. Tree equivalents shall be credited as follows:  EXISTING TREE      NOT REQUIRED TO PLANT DIAMETER OF EXISTING TREE (AT FOUR AND ONE-HALF FEET ABOVE GRADE) TREE CREDITS:  6”   1 Tree 12”   2 Trees 18”  3 Trees 24”  4 Trees 30”  5 Trees 36”  6 Trees 42”  7 Trees  64  7). Tree Protection During Construction Every attempt shall be made to protect and save existing trees on a development site, except for those trees removed to allow for the erection of the building and/or improvements. If a tree or group of trees are to be retained on the site for Tree Credits, a tree protection barrier system approved by the City Horticulturist and/or Tree Commission must be constructed and maintained throughout the construction process to protect the Critical Root Zone(s). Refer to the “Tree Protection During Construction” Booklet provided by the City of Eufaula Horticulture Department or Building Department for strategies to maintain proper protection. 8). Protection of Natural Areas: Areas of undisturbed, desirable trees and vegetation may be designated as “Natural Areas”. Individual Natural Areas must be a minimum of one-tenth (0.1) acre. Natural Areas will be credited against overall fifteen (15%) percent landscaping requirements, and property owner can elect to install a minimum twelve (12’) foot green space in setback instead of the required twenty (20’) foot green space and setback. Credit will not be allowed if proper protection of the Critical Root Zone of the Natural Area is not maintained throughout the construction process. Refer to the “Tree Protection During Construction” Booklet provided by the City of Eufaula Horticulture or Building Department for strategies to maintain proper protection. Loss of Natural Area due to significant tree decline or tree death will require the owner to replace the amount of credited trees lost using the tree credit formula above. Replacement trees will be planted throughout all setbacks and within the former Natural Area. Section 6.62. Tree Protection Requirements  1). Application of Section 6.62 The requirements of this section shall apply to all land, other than public rights-of-way, located within the corporate city limits of the City of Eufaula, except R-1, R-2, and FAR lots or other lots where a bona fide agricultural or forestry operation exists. All definitions set forth in Section 6.61(3) shall apply to the provisions in this section. 2). Permit Any person wishing to remove or relocate a desirable tree shall, under the provisions of this Section, make written application with the City of Eufaula Horticulture Department, which application shall include a Landscape Plan as provided in Section 6.61 (4). Upon paying an administrative application fee of thirty ($30.00) dollars to cover the costs of researching and processing the application, the application and Plan shall be stamped with the date and time. Upon approval by the Horticulturist, the application fee may be waived when tree removal is a direct result of storm damage. All proceeds from the application fee shall be earmarked for the use of the administration of this section. a. Time of Permit Any and all permits issued by the City as per the requirements of Section 6.62 shall be declared null and void if commencement of work so permitted is not started within a reasonable time, not to exceed six months. But in no case will the permit be valid for more than twelve months. Permits not used within this period will become null and void and future work will require a new application. 65  b. Permit Procedure An application may be field checked prior to issuance of a permit. The City must approve or deny the permit within five (5) working days after the date of receipt of the application. Failure to deny the application, as provided herein, within this five (5) day period shall result in the automatic issuance of the permit as requested in the application. The City Horticulturist may request a recommendation concerning the application from any or all appropriate City departments, and/or Tree Commission. c. Criteria for Issuance of Tree Removal Permit: (1) The tree is located in an area where a structure or improvement will be placed according to an approved plan. (2) The tree is diseased, injured, in danger of falling too close to existing or proposed structures, interferes with existing utility service, creates unsafe vision clearance or conflicts with other ordinances or regulations. (3) The tree is, or will be after construction, in violation of federal, state, or local laws or regulations, or cause the construction to violate federal, state, or local laws or regulations including, but not limited to, laws and regulations pertaining to government programs for financing the construction. d. Basis for Denial of Permit The City Horticulturist, upon a determination that an application for tree removal does not meet the criteria of subparagraph (c) above, may, within his/her discretion, deny the same and shall notify the applicant of the reason(s) for said denial within five (5) working days of his/her decision. 3). Removal of Public Trees No trees shall be removed from public rights of way without consent of city horticulturist. This shall not apply to trees with a DBH of 4” or less. Any other trees must be made known to city horticulturist for his/her permission to take down. 4). Penalties and Restitution Any person, firm, or corporation violating or failing to comply with this ordinance shall be subject to a minimum monetary fine of one hundred dollars ($100) per day per violation for each day said violation remains uncorrected. In addition to any fine levied hereunder, any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with this ordinance shall make monetary restitution to the City of Eufaula according to the following formula set forth below. All court ordered restitution shall be payable by the municipal court clerk to the municipal treasurer for deposit in an account maintained by the City of Eufaula Horticulture Department which is earmarked for the replacement and/or maintenance of public trees. ACTION RESTITUTION OFFENSE Tree removal (defined in $27.00 per inch of first tree removed Section 6.62(3)) without tree at DBH or stump up to a removal permit or damage    maximum of five hundred to trees left on development    dollars ($500.00) restitution sites designated to be protected. $27.00 per inch of diameter second tree removed  66   at DBH or stump per each  tree cut. $35.00 per inch of diameter third and subsequent at DBH or stump with a trees removed  minimum restitution of  $500.00 dollars per tree. Failure to apply for tree removal Amount of permit fee, plus first permit any fine and restitution if  applicable. Twice the permit fee plus second  any fine and restitution  applicable. Three times permit fee plus third and subsequent  any fine and/or restitution  applicable. Tree removal on city right-of-way $35.00 per inch of diameter first and subsequent  at DBH or stump with a  minimum of five hundred  dollars per tree. Damage to tree $13.50 per inch of tree first tree damaged  diameter at DBH . $27.00 per inch of tree second and   diameter at DBH . subsequent trees  If “damage to tree(s)” occurs, then property owner shall be liable for the damage to said trees. If the property owner fails to remove dead or damaged tree(s) presenting a public hazard, the City of Eufaula has the authority to remove tree(s) and charge the property owner for services. The “Tree Protection During Construction” Booklet provided by the City of Eufaula Horticulture Department or the Building Department further shows how to prevent damage to tree(s). Enforcement of this ordinance shall be by Issuance of Summons and Complaint. The City Horticulturist and/or any member of the Tree Commission may write an “environmental offense” ticket, which will be deemed as a courtesy citation only. A record of any courtesy citations will be kept in the Horticulturist’s office and made available to the municipal court upon request. 5). Interference with City Horticulturalist No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the City Horticulturist, the Eufaula Tree Commission or any other duly authorized individual, while engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this ordinance; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as an attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal or equitable, in any court or competent jurisdiction for the protection of property rights by the owner or any property within the municipality. 6). Nonapplicability of Ordinance to Lands and Rights Used For Facilities of Public Utilities Nothing herein shall affect or derogate in any way the rights of, or exercise by, any public utility of its present and future acquired rights, to clear (and keep clear) trees and other growth from lands utilized, or to be utilized, for electric or communication facilities of any type, or  67  dangerous trees adjacent thereto whether such rights were acquired by permits, easements, agreements, deeds, documents, or otherwise from landowners, or were acquired by condemnation, franchise or the operation of State law. The utility company shall cooperate with the City Horticulturist when clearing or pruning of the rights-of-way is exercised. 7). Appeal of Grant or Denial of Permit Appeals of either a grant or denial of permits pursuant to Section 6.62 shall be to the Eufaula Tree Commission. All appeals shall be placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the commission. The Eufaula Tree Commission shall have the power to grant permits upon a showing by the applicant by clear and convincing evidence that the applicant will suffer extreme and extraordinary hardship if this ordinance is literally enforced as to said application. No appeals shall be granted unless appeal receives four affirmative votes from the members of the Tree Commission, present and voting, for the hearing. Any appeal of any action taken by the Tree Commission shall be to the Board of Zoning Adjustments. Section 6.63. Buffer/Screening Requirement 1.) Purpose The purpose of this section is to protect residential land uses from noise, glare of lights and signs, odor, debris, and visual encroachment of adjacent commercial, manufacturing, or multifamily uses. 2.) Application of Section 6.63 The requirements of this section shall apply to any commercial, manufacturing, or multifamily land use that abuts a residential land use. Where residential development occurs in districts not zoned residential the requirements still apply. The requirements do not apply when land that is zoned FAR is used for agriculture or forestry. 3.) Buffers A buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip of land at least thirty feet wide, established along the entire length of and contiguous to the designated property line or lines. Buffers shall be grassed or mulched unless ground cover is already established. All requirements of Section 6.61 shall apply to buffers. 4.) Vegetative Screening Vegetative screen planting is required in buffers to reduce or eliminate nuisances created by incompatible land uses. Such planting shall be so designed, planted, and maintained as to create a visually unbroken barrier at least six feet tall within two years of planting. Any plants that die within said two-year period shall be promptly replaced. As to those plants, a new two- year time frame shall begin for them to reach six feet tall. Plants shall be arranged in such a manner as to provide a variety of plant materials and spacing so that straight single-species rows are minimized. A list of recommended plants will be available from the city Building Department or Horticulturist. 6.631. Exception When a proposed multifamily development will abut an existing multifamily land use the required buffer will be a minimum of twenty feet. No vegetative screen planting is required. Instead, one large shade tree per every thirty linear feet, or portion thereof, of the adjacent property line or lines is required. 68  In the case of existing development or any nonconforming lot where the provision of the thirty foot screened buffer precludes the reasonable use of the property, upon approval of the Zoning Administrator and the Mayor, a wall or fence at least six feet high, supplemented by vegetative screening, may be substituted. Plans for the design and construction of such a wall or fence must be constructed along the designated property lines and maintained in good condition. (Amended 7/22/14; Ord. 2014-7) The Planning Commission may require more restrictive buffers for any development that is expected to generate excessive noise, light, odor, or other nuisance. Section 6.7. Sign Regulations Section 6.71. Purpose, Applicability and Effect  6.711. Statement of Purpose The purpose of this ordinance is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City of Eufaula; improve the general aesthetics of the City of Eufaula by providing for uniform standards for the location, spacing, height, setback, lighting and other regulation of signs within the City; and promote the business community through standard advertising practices. The purposes of this section are as follows: a. To preserve and promote the public health, safety, and welfare in the City of Eufaula. b. To protect the motoring public from damage or injury caused or partially attributable to distractions or obstructions from improperly designed or situated signs; c. To protect property values within the city; d. To afford the business community equal and fair opportunity to advertise and promote its products and services without discrimination one over the other; and to enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign restrictions. e. To promote the business and economic well-being of the Eufaula community by creating a favorable physical image to support local businesses; f. To allow signs appropriate-to-the-planned character of each zoning district; and to protect the historic character of neighborhoods in the historic districts. g. To protect the right of citizens to enjoy Eufaula’s natural scenic beauty; h. To enhance the aesthetic appeal of the city in order to promote the city as a tourist attraction; and to protect the tourist attractions of the city from being obstructed from view by numerous large signs. i. To encourage the growth of the tourist industry by making signage consistent with and enabling to the tourist attractions. j. To enhance the aesthetic appeal of the city in order to attract retirees to the area; and make the city consistent with the appeal and inducement of a retirement community. k. To meet the goals of the Eufaula 2020 Strategic Plan  69  This sign ordinance is adopted under the zoning authority of the City in furtherance of the more general purposes set forth in “The Zoning Ordinance”. 6.712. Applicability - Effect This ordinance shall be called "Sign Regulations". These sections supplement other sections of the Zoning Ordinance and supersede any conflicting sections. A sign may be erected, placed, established, painted, created, or maintained in the city only in conformance with the requirements of this ordinance. The effect of this ordinance is: - To establish a permit system to allow a variety of types of signs in commercial and industrial zones, and a limited variety of signs in other zones, subject to the standards and the permit procedures of this ordinance; - To allow small, unobtrusive signs incidental to the principal use of the respective lots on which they are located, subject to the substantive requirements of this ordinance. - To prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this ordinance; and - To provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance. - To encourage the use of monument signs. 6.713. Effect - Construction These sections shall be liberally construed to effect the purpose of reducing the number and size of signs, and to effect the purpose of advancing the statement of purpose of section 6.711. These sections may not be construed or applied in such a way that would give a preference or greater degree of protection to a sign conveying a commercial message than is given to a sign similarly situated and constructed conveying a non-commercial message. These sections must be construed to apply to all signs irrespective of the commercial or non-commercial character of the content. Any ambiguity or question shall be resolved by allowing a non-commercial sign the same benefits, and other preferences that may be given to a commercial sign similarly constructed and situated, or by imposing on such commercial sign the same restriction imposed on the non-commercial sign similarly constructed and situated. These sections apply to existing signs and to proposed signs. Proposed signs for which construction has not lawfully begun but for which an application has been made or for which a permit has been issued, must conform to these sections. This ordinance is to be construed as a comprehensive regulation in that all types of signs and supporting structures are allowed only in accordance with this ordinance. The message content of a sign is of almost no relevance in that a person desiring to display, for example, a message which is ordinarily considered an off- premise message and is ordinarily considered a non-commercial (i.e. ideological, political, religious, etc.) message, may display that message on a sign which is permitted as an on- premise commercial sign. Similarly, for example, an on-premise non-commercial message can be displayed on a sign which is permitted as an off-premise commercial sign. Under the sign ordinances of this jurisdiction all signs are regulated, irrespective of whether the existing or future messages are of a commercial or non-commercial nature. The applicant for a sign may make the choice of category. As to existing signs the city shall decide the category, giving consideration to the overall practices and arrangements among the owners of the sign, the owner of the sign site, and the owner of the message. See, for example, the definitional criteria for “off-premise” signs and for “commercial use” in Section  70  6.72. Once the category is chosen the applicable ordinance will be applied. Therefore, changing the nature of the message on signs from, for example, a commercial message to a non-commercial type of message does not remove the sign from the previously designated category, and all regulations that applied to that category of sign will continue to apply after the nature of the message is changed. If a sign is to change category from a previous category, a permit must be obtained and the sign must comply with the regulations for the new category. In construing this ordinance no provision is to be read as impliedly creating a type of sign that is not regulated or not prohibited. Section 6.72. Definitions and Computations  6.721. Definitions and Interpretation Words and phrases used in this ordinance shall have the meanings defined in this section. Words and phrases not defined in this section but defined in the zoning ordinance of the city shall have the meanings defined in that ordinance. All other words and phrases shall be given their common, ordinary meaning, unless the context clearly requires otherwise. Words used in the singular shall include the plural; and the plural the singular; and the words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The word “shall” is mandatory, not discretionary. The word “may” is permissive. Section headings or captions are for reference purposes only and shall not be used in the interpretation of this ordinance. 6.722. Definitions “A” Frame or Sandwich Sign: A sign so named because of the inverted “V” shaped structure and utilization of copy on both sides, facing opposite parallel directions. These signs are usually painted on wood or metal surfaces usually resting on the ground with no permanent attachment. Abandoned Sign: A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide business, lessor, service, owner, product, or activity, time of event passed, and/or for which no legal owner can be found. This definition shall also include any sign structure which no longer supports the sign for which it was designed. A sign or sign structure shall be considered abandoned when the business activity or firm which such sign advertises has not been in operation for twelve consecutive months, or does not have a current business license in operation, or when the sign is in a state of disrepair. Animated Sign: Any sign that uses flashing or blinking lights, movement, or illusion or movement to depict action or create a special effect or scene. An illuminated sign is not considered an animated sign if: (a) It has no illumination which is in continuous motion or which appears to be in continuous motion, (b) The message does not change at a rate faster than one message every four seconds, (c) The interval between message is not less than one second, and, (d) The intensity of illumination does not change more often than twice daily. 71  Attached Sign: Any sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted to a freestanding sign, and which extends from the wall, but not more than twenty-four (24) inches. Awning: Any rigid or non-rigid material such as fabric or flexible plastic that is supported by or stretched over a frame that is attached to an exterior wall. Awning Sign: A sign placed directly on the surface of an awning. Backlit Awning/Canopy: A structure, projecting from and supported by the exterior wall of a building constructed of materials such a cloth, plastic, or metal with characters, letters, figures, etc. illuminated by electric light, luminous tubes, or other lighting method as part of the sign structure. This type of structure will be considered a wall sign for regulation purposes. Banner: Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is permanently mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame at one or more edges. Bench Sign: An advertising message on any portion of a bus stop bench or other bench. Building Marker: Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material. Building Official: The official designated by the city to administer the sign ordinance, or his or her designee. Canopy: An extension of the roof of a building or a freestanding structure that has a roof with support, but no walls. This definition excludes residential carport. Canopy Sign: Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy, or other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy. Changeable Copy Sign: A sign or portion thereof whose informational content can be changed or altered by manual or electric, electro-mechanical, or electronic means. City: The City of Eufaula. Commercial Sign: When describing the content of a sign, a sign advertising, identifying, directing attention to, or otherwise relating to commerce and to property, goods or services for sale, lease, exchange or any other transaction where value is given or received by any party to the transaction. Commercial Message: Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that, directly or indirectly, names advertises, or calls attention to a business, product, service, or other commercial activity. Directional Sign: A sign that provides on-site directional assistance of the convenience of the public such as location of exits, entrances, and parking lots. Electronic Display Screen: A sign, or portion of a sign, that displays an electronic image or video, which may or may not include test. This definition includes television screens, plasma screens, digital screens, flat screen, LED screens, video boards, and holographic displays. 72  Electronic Message Center: Any sign or portion of a sign that uses changing lights to form a sign message or messages in text from wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of change is electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic processes. Erect: To build, paint, construct, reconstruct, attach, hang, suspend, place, or affix. Fascia Sign: A sign attached directly to the fascia of a building. Fence Sign: A sign that is fastened to or painted on a fence in such a manner that the fence becomes the supporting structure for, or forms the background surface of the sign. Festoons: A string of ribbons, tinsel, small flags, or pinwheels. Flag: A piece of cloth or other flexible material varying in size, color, and/or design, used as a symbol, standard, signal, or emblem. Freestanding Sign: Any sign supported by structures or supports that are placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any building or other structure. Includes ground and mounting signs. Ground Sign: A freestanding sign supported by a sign structure placed in the ground and which is entirely independent of any building, fence, or object other than the sign structure (which included uprights, braces, etc.) for support. A ground sign is also known as a pole sign. Hanging Sign: See suspended sign. Illegal Sign: Any sign erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance and more particularly described in Section 6.734. Illuminated Sign: A sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light source. Incidental Sign: A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose secondary to the use of the zone lot on which it is located, such as “no parking”, “entrance”, “loading only”, “telephone”, and other similar directives. No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the zone lot on which the sign is located shall be considered incidental. Inflatable Sign: Any device which is supported by air pressure or inflated with air or gas which is used to attract the attention of the public, whether or not it displays any specific advertising message. Lot: Any piece or parcel of land or a portion of a subdivision, the boundaries of which have been established by some legal instrument of record, that is recognized and intended as a unit for the purpose of transfer of ownership. Main Traveled Way: The portion of a street that is paved with a hard surface or gravel and used for the travel of vehicles. Marquee: Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, and supported by the building, generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather. Marquee Sign: Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a marquee. 73  Monument Sign: Any freestanding sign in which the bottom of the sign is flush with the ground, and with a maximum height not to exceed ten (10) feet. Noncommercial Sign: Any sign whose message does not conform to the definition of a commercial message. Nonconforming Sign: Any sign in existence prior to the effective date of this ordinance, or any applicable amendment thereto, which does not satisfy the requirements of this ordinance, as amended, but not declared illegal by definition of this section or more particularly described in Section 6.734. Official Sign: Any sign erected by or at the direction of a governmental agency. Off-Premise Sign, Off-site Sign or Off-Site Advertising: Any sign that is used to attract attention to an object, person, product, institution, organization, business, service, event or location that is not located on the premises upon which the sign is located, or which said product, service, business, or activity is sold, located, or conducted on such premises only incidentally, if at all. This definition does not include governmental traffic, directional, or regulatory signs or notices of any federal, state, or local governmental entity. Off-premise signs are regulated by Section 6.78 of this ordinance. On-Premise or On-Site Sign: Any sign that is used to attract attention to an object, person, product, institution, organization, business, service, event or location that is located on the premises upon which the sign is located. Pennant: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string, usually in series, designed to move in the wind. Permanent Sign: Any sign which is designed, constructed and affixed at the site in such a manner that is intended to last indefinitely without change. Person: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, trust or any other group or combination of individuals operating as a unit and including any trustee, receiver, assignee, or other similar representative thereof. Portable Sign: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs converted to A-or T-frames; balloons used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business. Premises: A single parcel of land with its appurtenances and buildings which, because of its unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of real estate. Projecting Sign: Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner that its leading edge extends more than twelve (12) inches beyond the surface of such building or wall. Roof Line: The highest continuous horizontal line of a roof, excluding any mansards, cupolas, pylons, chimneys, or minor projections. On a sloping roof, the roof line is the principal ridge line, or the highest line common to one or more principal slopes of roof. On a  74  flat roof, the roof line is the highest continuous line of the roof or parapet, whichever is higher. Roof Sign: Any sign erected or attached over or on the roof line of a building, and supported by the building. Roof Sign, Integral: Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more than six inches. Setback: The distance from the property line to the nearest part of the applicable sign, measured perpendicularly to the property line. Shopping Center: A group of commercial establishments planned, developed, managed as a unit, related in location, size, and type of shops to the trade area that the unit serves, and providing on-site parking in definite relationship to the types and sizes of stores. Sign: Any device, fixture, placard, sculpture, or structure, whether natural or man made, that uses any color, form, graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing to advertise, announce the purpose of, or identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate information of any kind to the public. This definition includes all parts of such a device, including its structure and supports and also includes balloons, banners, pennants, flags, lights, reflectors, reflected lights, streamers or other devices which are used to attract the attention of the public, whether or not they convey a specific advertising message. Sign Face: The surface or plane of the sign upon, against, or through which a message is displayed or illustrated. Sign Structure: Those parts of a sign designed to support it in place. Site: A lot or parcel, or contiguous lots or parcels of land on which a building or complex of buildings is located. Snipe Sign: A temporary sign or poster affixed to a tree, fence, utility pole, etc. Political signs that are affixed to a tree, fence, utility pole, etc., shall meet the definition of a snipe sign and be subject to the requirements thereof. Street: A strip of land or way dedicated and used for vehicular traffic (as well as pedestrian traffic) that provides direct or indirect access to property, including, but not limited to alleys, avenues, boulevards, courts, drives, highways, lanes, places, roads, terraces, trails, or other thoroughfares. Street Frontage: The distance for which a lot line of a zone lot adjoins an opened public street, from one lot line intersecting said street to the furthest distance lot line intersecting the same street. Driveways and alleys are not to be used to determine or calculate street frontage. Suspended Sign: A sign that is suspended from the underside of a covered surface, and is completely covered by a building awning or permanent canopy. Temporary Sign: A sign that is displayed only for a specified period of time about special events or occurrences. 75  Use: The purpose for which a building, lot, sign, or structure is intended, designed, occupied, or maintained. Usable Wall Area: The exterior wall or surface area of a building or structure that excludes doors. Wall Sign: Any sign attached parallel to, but within six inches of, a wall, or painted on the wall surface of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or building. Wind Sign: Any sign, part of a sign or series of signs, designed or erected in such a manner as to move when subjected to wind pressure. Wind sign does not include “suspended signs.”  Window Sign: Any sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale, or service, that is attached inside a window or upon the window panes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window. Zone Lot: A lot as determined in the glossary in a designated zone district as determined by the City of Eufaula Zoning Ordinance. 6.723. Computations The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign height. (a) Computation of Sign Area The area of a sign, other than that of a wall sign which may be calculated differently, shall be computed by means of the smallest rectilinear figure (but which shall have a continuous perimeter of not more than eight straight lines) which encompasses all lettering, wording, frame, design or symbols, together with any background and any illuminated part of the sign on which the sign is located, if such background or such illuminated part of the sign is designed as an integral part of and related to the sign. Supports and bracing which are not intended as part of the sign and which contain no message, shall be excluded. In the case of multi-faced sign, the area of the sign shall be considered to include all faces visible from one direction. The area of a wall sign shall be within a single, continuous perimeter composed of any straight line geometric figure which encloses the extreme limits of the advertising message. The combined areas of the individual figures shall be considered the total sign area. (b) Computation of Height The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the ground directly below the center of the sign or from the grade of the closet point in the traveled way of the road or street the sign is located along, whichever is higher, to the sign or sign structure’s highest point. Section 6.73. General Provisions  6.731. Introduction Except as specifically exempted or prohibited in this section, all signs, constructed, reconstructed, or modified shall require a permit in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. 76  6.732. Signs not Regulated Public signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental body to post legal notices, identify public property, convey public information, and direct or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic are exempted from the regulations of this ordinance and do not require a permit. 6.733. Signs Regulated but not Requiring Permits The following types of signs are regulated but do not require permits, and shall not be considered in determining the allowable number or size of signs on a zone lot; provided, however, that they must comply with all other applicable sections of this ordinance. The erection of any sign not listed in this Section shall require a permit. (a) A nonilluminated, non-portable sign per zone lot or premises in residential districts not to exceed six (6) square feet in sign area or five feet in height. These signs may contain either a non-commercial message or be used to advertise the sale or rental of the property on which it is located, or to advertise improvements made to a building such as a contractor or vendor stating “Siding by ABC’ during period of construction or improvement. (b) A non-portable sign per zone lot or premises in C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, M-1, M-2, and FAR zones not to exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in size and six (6) feet in height. This sign may include, but not be limited to either a commercial or non-commercial message, to advertise the sale or rental of the property on which it is located, or to convey to the public the future plans on a parcel of property such as ‘coming soon’, ’financing by’, ‘future home of’, ‘construction by’, etc. during period of construction or improvement. (c) Signs required by law, statute or ordinance; (d) Decorative flags, flags, emblems or insignia of any nation, state or political subdivision, or individual or group displaying a message or meaning, provided that (1) they do not number more than three per lot, or more than one for each individual message, (2) the individual surface area is not greater than 40 square feet per flag, (3) if larger than three feet by four feet, are supported by a pole attached to the ground, and (4) the supporting poles are not greater than the larger of twenty(20) feet high or five(5)feet more than the permitted height for a freestanding sign. Such exempted wind signs shall not be attached to a light standard, canopy, or sign structure. (e) Temporary window signs located on the inside of window intended for the purpose of disseminating information about special sales or promotional campaigns, provided that such signs are of a temporary nature, do not contain illumination, and are constructed of such materials and are of such a nature that clearly indicates that they are temporary. Such signs may not cover more that fifty (50) percent of any window area and may not block the view of access or exits. One temporary window sign with illumination may be allowed per window but shall be limited to ten (10) percent of the window ar4a and shall not contain any animation or flashing lights. (f) Holiday lights and decorations which are associated with any national, local or other nationally recognized holiday or celebration or special event such as a grand opening or special sales event for a maximum time period of forty-five (45) calendar days before and ten (10) calendar days after. Such lights and decorations are allowed once per year. Flashing lights are not allowed. 77  (g) Indoor signs which are not intended to be viewed from outside the building. (h) Directional signs not exceeding four (4) square feet designed to direct and inform the public as to the location of exits, entrances, service areas, loading and unloading areas, or similar wording of an informal nature, and which do not contain any commercial message. (i) Gasoline pump signs - Signs shall be allowed on gasoline pumps so as to provide required information to the public, such as gallons, price, octane rating, type of fuel, and brand name. (j) Gasoline awning signs - signs shall be allowed on no more than two sides of a gasoline awning that depict the lead name of the business, such as “Exxon”, “BP”, “Shell”, etc. Signs that are an integral part of a vending machine. (k) “A” Frame and sandwich signs. Such signs shall not exceed six square feet on any one side and shall not be placed in such a way as to encumber any sidewalk or similar area. 6.734. Signs Prohibited and Declared Illegal All signs not expressly permitted under this ordinance are prohibited and are declared to be illegal signs in the city, and are named and described s follows: (a) Banners, pennants, festoons, and other wind signs, except as allowed by Section 6.737; (b) Temporary signs except as allowed under the provisions of this ordinance; (c) Snipe signs and other signs attached to utility poles, light standards, trees, fences, the ground itself, or other natural features. (d) Portable signs, except “A” frame and sandwich signs; (e) Searchlights, strobe or flashing lights (except as required for public safety by state or local regulation); (f) Illuminated tubing such as neon or string of lights outlining property lines, open sales areas, doors, windows, or wall edges of any building. This does not include holiday decorations as regulated in Section 6.733(f). (g) Inflatable signs and tethered balloons (h) Animated signs (i) Any abandoned sign or sign structure (j) Any sign on a motor vehicle or trailer which is parked in front of a business for the purpose of advertising a business or product or service of a business located on the premises where such vehicle is parked, unless said motor vehicle or trailer is used in the day to day operations of the business for transportation purposes. (k) Bench signs, or any sign affixed to bus shelters. (l) Roof signs. Mansard, pent eave, and canopy signs are permitted in accordance with other requirements contained herein. 78  (m) Sign in the public right-of-way except those specifically permitted by other provisions of this ordinance. (n) Sign imitating traffic or emergency signs or signals. (o) Signs that prevent free ingress or egress from any door, window, or fire escape. No sign of any kind shall be attached to a fire escape. (p) Signs that require the removal of any trees from the public right-of-way; excluding traffic, directional, warning, or information signs owned by any public or semi-public agency. Monument signs are encouraged in certain areas where trees would obstruct the view of free standing pole signage. (q) Sign lighting which is incompatible with residential character. No sign shall be illuminated in such a way that it cast intense light onto any residential premises. Intense light shall be considered any light with intensity greater than the average residential street light. 6.735. Permits Required If a sign requiring a permit under the provisions of this ordinance is to be placed, constructed, erected, or modified on a zone lot, the owner of the lot shall secure a sign permit prior to the construction, placement, erection, or modification of such a sign in accordance with the requirements of this section. Furthermore, the property owner shall maintain in force, at all times, a sign permit for such sign in accordance with this section. No sign permit of any kind shall be issued for an existing or proposed sign unless such sign is consistent with the requirements of this ordinance (including those protecting existing signs) in every respect. 6.736. Design, Construction, and Maintenance All signs requiring a permit shall be designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following standards: All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of the International Building code and the electrical code of the city at all times. All signs requiring a permit shall be constructed of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the ground, a building, or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame, or structure. All signs shall be maintained in good structural condition, in compliance with all building and electrical codes, and in conformance with this code, at all times. The Building Official, or his designee, shall have the right to order the repair or removal of any sign which is defective, damaged, or substantially deteriorated, as defined in the Building Code. No person may engage in the business of erecting, relocating, constructing, or maintaining signs without a valid city license and all required state and federal licenses. All persons involved in maintenance, installation, alteration, or relocation of signs near or upon any public right-of-way shall agree to hold harmless and indemnify the City, its officers, agents, and employees, against any and all claims of negligence resulting from such work. 79  All persons involved in the maintenance, installation, alteration, or relocation of signs shall maintain all required insurance and shall file with the city a satisfactory certificate of insurance to indemnify the state, county, or city against any form of liability in accordance with city, county, and state regulations. 6.737. Temporary Special Use Sign Permits for Banners Temporary special use sign permits may be issued for banners to those qualifying and meeting the general requirements of this permit. The Code Enforcement Officer will have authority to review applications under this section and issue permits. The qualifications are as follows: (a) The sign permit must be for a specified time and shall not exceed fifteen (15) days in duration. The applicant will be responsible for removing the sign at the expiration of the permit. Failure to remove the sign at the expiration date will result in the city removing the sign and assessing the cost to the applicant. (b) Temporary special use signs for banners shall not exceed 6 feet in height and shall be placed solely on the displayer’s property. Banners shall not exceed 3’ by 10’ in size, or equivalent to 30 square feet. A clear view from any street intersection or entranceway must be provided between heights of three feet and ten feet in a triangle formed by the corner and points on the curb 30 feet from the intersection or entranceway. (c) The permit is limited to 15 days, four times per year, once per quarter, not to run consecutively, with each business allowed one banner per occurrence. Section 6.74. Regulation by Zone 6.741. Signs Permitted in All Zones The signs enumerated in Section 6.732, Signs not Regulated, and Section 6.733, Signs Regulated but not Requiring Permits, are permitted in all zones. 6.742. Signs Permitted in Residential Zones For the purposes of this section, the following shall be considered residential districts: R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MHR, AND MH, E-1, AND FAR. Signs are permitted in these districts as follows: (a) For home occupations - One (1) non-illuminated wall sign is permitted not exceeding three (3) square feet in size. (b) For single-family subdivisions and multi-family complexes, including mobile home parks - Up to two (2) monument signs per street frontage, not to exceed twenty (20) square feet in sign area per sign or six (6) feet in height. Monument signs may be placed in medians maintained by homeowners’ associations or other private associations and must be set back in such a manner so as to not interfere with ingress/egress or other traffic patterns and so that a clear view is allowed at intersections. Signs may be illuminated. (c) For permitted nonresidential uses other than home occupations, including churches and synagogues - One (1) freestanding monument sign not to exceed thirty (30) square feet in sign area or 10 feet in height. Unless otherwise specified, signs shall be set back from the property line so that the closest edge of a sign does not project into the right-of-way. A clear  80  view from any street intersection or entranceway must be provided between the heights of three feet and ten feet in a triangle formed by the corner and points of the curb thirty feet from the intersection or entranceway. Signs may be illuminated, including an electronic message center that does not flash or display any animated image. 6.743. Signs Permitted in Commercial Zones Signs in these zones may be illuminated. Signs are permitted in these districts as follows:  (a) One (1) freestanding ground sign per street frontage not to exceed the following:  Zone   Area      Height  C-1    24 square feet   12 feet  C-2   100 square feet   25 feet  C-3   50 square feet   10 feet  C-4 100 square feet  25 feet  Signs in the C-2 and C-4 zones may be up to 150 square feet in sign area, a maximum height of 45 feet and have a reader board of 48 square feet if located more than 50 feet from the edge of the main traveled way of the adjacent roadway. All freestanding signs must be set back from the property line so that the closest edge of the sign does not project in to the right-of-way. A clear view from any street intersection or entranceway must be provided between the heights of three feet and ten feet in a triangle formed by the corner and points on the curb 30 feet from the intersection or entranceway. In addition to the freestanding sign, each business may have a reader board not to exceed 32 square feet in area attached to and made part of the freestanding sign. This reader board may be an Electronic Display Center, provided that the text displayed does not flash or display any animated image. (b) Attached wall sign or backlit awning/canopy sign per street frontage. Attached wall signs shall not exceed an aggregate of 30% of the wall area for buildings located more than 20 feet from the property line and an aggregate of 20% of the wall area for buildings located 20 feet or less from the property line, but not to exceed 200 square feet. Wall signs shall not obstruct upper-story window or architectural embellishments. The copy area of awning/canopy signs is limited to forty-five (45) percent of the awning, not to exceed the maximum allowable for the building. (c) One (1) under-canopy sign for each separate street-level occupancy or separate entrance hanging directly from the canopy in front of the establishment, provided each such sign is perpendicular to the building, has a minimum clearance of eight (8) feet to grade, is not taller than one (1) foot, and have total area not to exceed four (4) square feet. (d) Incidental signs not to exceed four (4) square feet of sign area per occupancy. (e) Multiple establishments on a single zone lot or shopping centers may construct one (1) freestanding sign per public road frontage. The area of the primary sign shall be based on one (1) square foot for each front foot of the total buildings in the shopping center; however the total square footage of the primary sign shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet. The location of the primary sign shall be placed ten feet from the property line, measured  81  from the closest edge of the sign to the property line. In addition to setback requirements, signs shall be located such that there is at every street intersection a clear view between heights of three feet and ten feet in a triangle formed by the corner and points on the curb 30 feet from the intersection or entranceway. In addition, each establishment in the shopping center may construct one (1) wall sign per public road frontage of each establishment as regulated in section (b) above. (f) Multiple franchised establishments or commercial businesses on a single zone lot may construct one (1) freestanding sign for each franchised entity the size of which shall conform to these regulations for the district in which they are located. (g) Window signs of a permanent nature where the business name is depicted on the copy. The size of the sign shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the window area. (h) Gasoline awning signs -signs shall be allowed on 2 sides of the awning. Sign area shall exceed thirty (30) percent of the awning area with a total maximum allowable sign area of 100 square feet. (i) Fence signs of a temporary or permanent nature. The size shall not exceed thirty (30) percent of the fence area with a total maximum allowable size area of one-hundred (100) square feet. 6.744. Signs Permitted in Industrial Zones Signs in these zones may be illuminated. Signs are permitted in the M-1 and M-2 districts as follows: (a) One (1) freestanding sign per street frontage not to exceed one hundred (100) square feet, or one hundred fifty (150) square feet if located more than fifty feet from the edge of the main traveled way of the adjacent roadway, and not more than twenty-five (25) feet in height. All freestanding signs must be set back at least ten (10) feet from all property lines. In addition to setback requirements, signs shall be located such that there is at every street intersection a clear view between heights of three feet and 10 feet in a triangle formed by the corner and points on the curb 30 feet from the intersection or entranceway. (b) One (1) attached wall sign shall not exceed 25% of the wall area on which the signs are installed, not to exceed 200 square feet. (c) Fence signs of a temporary or permanent nature. The size of the sign shall not exceed thirty (30) percent of the fence area with a total maximum allowable size of thirty (30) square feet. Section 6.75. Nonconforming and Illegal Signs  6.751. Nonconforming Permanent Signs Subject to the following conditions, all permanent signs not defined as an illegal sign by this ordinance and which were made nonconforming by the passage of ordinance 1986-26 or which were made nonconforming by the passage of this ordinance or by any subsequent amendment, may be continued in operation and maintained. (Amended 9/17/12; Ord.2012-7) Such signs shall not be:  82  (1) replaced with another nonconforming sign. (2) enlarged, extended, (constructed, reconstructed), moved, or structurally altered except to bring the sign into conformance with all provisions of this ordinance; (3) re-established after damage or destruction if such damage to the sign exceeds 50 percent of its original construction cost or current replacement cost, whichever is less. The extent of the damage shall be determined by the Building Official. (4) re-established after it has been removed or has been abandoned for 12 consecutive months or more. (A sign shall be considered abandoned if the business establishment advertised by said sign has not been open for business within the past 12 consecutive month period, does not have a current business license in operation or the sign is in a state of disrepair.) (Amended 9/17/12; Ord.2012-7)  6.752. Nonconforming Portable, Temporary, or Wind Signs All portable, temporary, or wind signs which are made nonconforming as a result of the passage of this ordinance, or from the passage of any subsequent amendment to this ordinance are hereby declared to be illegal signs and shall be removed within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this ordinance. 6.753. Illegal Signs All signs identified as illegal under Section 6.734 and 6.752 of this ordinance shall be removed within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this ordinance in accordance with the enforcement provisions of this ordinance. Section 6.76. Administration and Enforcement  6.761. Permit Procedure  (a) All signs, except as otherwise provided in Section 6.73 of this ordinance, shall require a sign permit prior to being constructed, reconstructed, moved, altered, placed, or repaired. Sign permits shall be issued by the Building Official. (b) Permit Application All applications for sign permits for the erection or relocation of a sign shall be submitted to the Building Official. (c) Permit Fees Each application for a sign permit shall be accompanied by the applicable fees, which shall be established by the city council of the city from time to time. (d) Issuance and Denial (1) Completeness: Within five working days of receiving an application for a sign permit, the Building Official shall review it for completeness. If the Building Official finds that it is complete, the application shall then be processed. If the Building Official finds that it is incomplete, the Building Official shall, within such five-day period, send to the applicant a notice of the specific ways in which the application is deficient, with appropriate references to the applicable sections of-this ordinance. 83  (2) Action: Within seven working days of the submission of a complete application for a sign permit, the Building Official shall either:  (aa) Issue the sign permit, if the sign(s) that is the subject of the application conforms in every respect with the requirements of this ordinance; or (bb) Reject the sign permit if the sign(s) that is the subject of the application fails in any way to conform with the requirements of this ordinance. In case of a rejection, the Building Official shall specify in the rejection the section or sections of the ordinance or applicable plan with which the sign(s) is inconsistent. (e) Inspection Upon Completion Any person installing, structurally altering, or relocating a sign for which a permit has been issued shall notify the Building Official upon completion of the work. The Building Official shall then conduct an inspection within seven (7) working days. If the construction is complete and in full compliance with this ordinance and with the building and electrical codes, the Building Official shall affix to the premises a permanent symbol identifying the sign(s) and the applicable permit by number or other reference. If the construction is substantially complete but not in full compliance with this ordinance and applicable codes, the Building Official shall give the owner or applicant notice of the deficiencies and shall allow an additional 30 days from the date of inspection for the deficiencies to be corrected. If the deficiencies are not corrected by such date, the permit shall lapse. If the construction is then complete, the Building Official shall affix to the premises the permanent symbol described above. (f) Lapse of Sign Permit A sign permit shall lapse if the business license for the premises lapses, is revoked, or is not renewed. A sign permit shall lapse if the business activity on the premises is discontinued for a period of 12 consecutive months or more. A sign that was constructed or maintained in conformance with a permit under this ordinance, but for which the permit has lapsed, shall be in violation of the ordinance. (h) Assignment of Sign Permit A current and valid sign permit shall be freely assignable to a successor as owner of the property or holder of a business license for the same premises, subject only to filing such application as the Building Official may require and paying any applicable fee. The assignment shall be accomplished by filing and shall not require approval. (I) Appeal Procedure Any person applying for a sign permit who is denied a permit or disagrees with any ruling by the Building Official may appeal to the Zoning Board of Adjustment. 6.762. Permits for Existing Signs For any sign in the city on the effective date of this ordinance, an application for a sign permit must be submitted to the Building Official within 180 days. For any sign on property annexed at a later date, applications for sign permits shall be submitted within six months of the effective date of the annexation or within such period as may be established in an annexation agreement between the city and the landowner. Applications for permits for existing signs  84  submitted within 180 days of the effective date of this ordinance shall be exempt from the initial fees adopted under authority of this ordinance, but not from any subsequent fees. 6.763. Permits for Nonconforming Signs A sign that could be permitted under this ordinance only with a sign permit, but which was in existence on the effective date of this ordinance, or on a later date when the property is annexed to the city, and which was constructed in accordance with the ordinances and other applicable laws in effect on the date of its construction, but which by reason of its size, height, location, design, or construction is not in conformance with the requirements of this ordinance, shall be issued a Nonconforming Sign Permit if an application in accordance with Section 6.762 of this ordinance is timely filed. Such permit shall allow the sign(s) subject to such permit, which were made nonconforming by the adoption of this ordinance, to remain in place and be maintained subject to the provisions of Section 6.75. A Nonconforming Sign Permit shall lapse and become void under the same circumstances as those under which any other sign permit may lapse and become void. 6.764. Violations Any of the following shall be a violation of this ordinance and shall be subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this ordinance, by the zoning ordinance, and by state law:  (a) To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in a way that is inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zone lot on which the sign is located;  b) To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign requiring a permit without such a permit;  (c) To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected, or maintained in violation of this ordinance, or for which the sign permit has lapsed; or  (d) To continue any such violation. Each such day of a continued violation shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty portions of this ordinance. 6.765. Enforcement and Remedies Any violation of this ordinance or of any condition or requirement adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected, or abated, as the case may be, by injunction or other appropriate proceedings pursuant to state law. A violation of this ordinance shall be considered a violation of the zoning ordinance of the city. Remedies and enforcement options shall be applied to the person, persons, corporations, business or entity in whose name the sign permit issued and/or the owner of the property. The remedies of the city shall include the following:  (a) Issuing a stop-work order for any and all work on any signs on the same zone lot;  (b) Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement that requires the correction of the nonconformity or the removal of the sign(s);  (c) Imposing any penalties that can be imposed directly by the city under the zoning ordinance;  (d) Seeking in court the imposition of any penalties that can be imposed by such court under the zoning ordinance; and  85  (e) In the case of a sign that poses an immediate danger to the public health or safety, taking such measures as are available to the city under the applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance and building code for such circumstances. The city shall have such other remedies as are and as may from time to time be provided for or allowed by state law for the violation of the zoning ordinance. All such remedies provided herein shall be cumulative. To the extent that state law may limit the availability of a particular remedy set forth herein for a certain violation or a part thereof, such remedy shall remain available for other violations or other parts of the same violation. Any sign installed or placed on public property, except in conformance with the requirements of this ordinance, shall be forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other remedies hereunder, the city shall have the right to recover from the owner or person placing such a sign the full costs or removal and disposal of such sign. Section 6.77. Variances to Sign Requirements The Zoning Board of Adjustments is hereby empowered to vary or adapt the strict application of the requirements of this ordinance. A variance may be appropriate where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape or by reason of other exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and exceptional situation or conditions on a piece of property, the strict application of the following regulations enacted under this ordinance would result in peculiar, exceptional, and hardship on the owner of such property: sign setback, sign height, sign placement and/or sign type. The following regulations enacted in this ordinance are not appealable: maximum allowable square footage of sign area, total number of signs allowed, maximum allowable total sign square footage allowed per site and regulations that protect public safety. After denial of a sign permit by the Building Official, a property owner or sign contractor may apply to the Board of Adjustment for a variance. No variance in the strict application of the provisions of this ordinance shall be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless it finds that the strict application of the provisions would cause exceptional hardship to the property owner. In general, the power to authorize a variance from the terms of this ordinance shall be sparingly exercised and shall not apply to non-appealable regulations as set out in the second paragraph of this Section 6.77. It is the intent of this ordnance that the variance be used only to overcome some exceptional physical condition of a parcel of land which poses practical difficulty and prevents the owner from obtaining the full use and purpose of the sign as intended by this sign ordinance. Any variance granted shall be the minimum adjustment necessary for the reasonable use of the sign. The applicant must prove that the variance will not be contrary to the public interest and that practical difficulty and unnecessary hardship will result if it is not granted. The Board may prescribe any safeguard that it deems necessary to secure substantially the objectives of the regulations or provisions to which the variance applies. Section 6.78. Off-Site Sign Regulations Off-site signs advertising a product for sale or a service to be rendered at a location other than the premises shall be permitted in the Forestry, Agricultural, and Residential District, and Commercial and Industrial Districts under the following conditions:  86  a. Where two (2) or more off-site signs are along the frontage of a single street or highway, they shall not be less than one thousand (1,000) feet apart. A double face (back to back) or v-type structure shall be considered a single sign. b. The total surface area, facing in the same direction of any off-site sign, shall not exceed three hundred feet in area. c. No off-site sign shall be erected on the roof of any buildings, nor shall one sign be placed above another sign. d. Off-sit signs must be set back a minimum of 10 feet from the right-of-way and must not exceed a height of 35 feet. Off-site signs may be illuminated by reflected light only, provided the source of light is not directly visible and is so arranged to illuminate away from the adjoining premises. No illumination involving movement by reason of lighting arrangement or other devices shall be permitted on off-site signs  Section 6.8. Large-Scale Retail  (1)Purpose and Intent This purpose of this section is to provide standards that address the unique characteristics of large scale retail/commercial developments. The intent of the standards is to achieve the following objectives: 1. To identify and mitigate impacts on traffic, city services, sensitive environments, land uses nearby, and community aesthetics and character. 2. To encourage large-scale, commercial-retail buildings and large-scale, commercial-retail development projects to have good architectural design rather than an enormous, warehouse appearance with unbroken, blank walls. Good design encourages clearly defined entryways, articulated rooflines to prevent monotony, pedestrian-amenity areas, and concealment of unsightly mechanical structures from public view. 3. To encourage pedestrian-oriented design that effectively resolves the incompatibility between pedestrians and motorists while providing interconnectivity between buildings, parking areas, and other internal/external components. 4. To encourage parking lot design that meets vehicular needs while providing a safer, efficient, comfortable pedestrian flow. 5. To encourage adequate landscaping that allows large buildings and their components to blend with their surroundings while providing screening and shade for the public benefit. 6. To encourage enhanced lighting and compatible signage design and to avoid forms of nuisance and intrusiveness into adjacent areas while enhancing public safety. 6.82. Applicability The requirements of this section apply to all retail/commercial structures whose gross enclosed floor space equal or exceeds 65,000 sq. ft. Any project whose building permit has been applied  87  for or issued prior to the effective date of this amendment to the comprehensive zoning ordinance of the City Of Eufaula shall be allowed to proceed under the previous requirements. 6.83. Impact Studies a. The applicant shall have a traffic impact study prepared consistent with the methodology commonly used by the Institute of Traffic Engineers. In addition to the general standards, the traffic impact study shall include weekend and holiday traffic generation and impact analysis. The traffic impact study shall also study intersections within a large enough area to take into account the regional traffic draw of a large-scale retail establishment. The traffic impact study shall be conducted by a certified traffic engineer registered in the State of Alabama. b. The applicant shall provide detailed analysis of expected impacts on utilities and public services, including water, sewage, storm drains, solid waste disposal, police and fire protection, emergency services, and other public services. 6.84. Aesthetic and Visual Characteristics. a. Facades and exterior walls including sides and backs. The building shall be designed in a way that will reduce the massive scale and uniform and impersonal appearance and will provide visual interest consistent with the community’s identity, character, and scale. Single- tenant structures shall provide variations in facade, roofline and depth to provide the appearance of multi-tenant occupancy. Long building walls of at least one hundred (100) feet shall be broken up with projections or recessions of sufficient depth along all sides, and in sufficient number, to reduce the unbroken massing into lengths of approximately fifty (50) feet or less along all sides of the building. Projections from the facade can be used as an alternate approach. Along any public street frontage the building design should include windows, arcades, awnings or other acceptable features along at least sixty (60) per cent of the building length. Arcades and other weather protection features shall be of sufficient depth and height to provide a light-filled and open space along the building frontage. Architectural treatment, similar to that provided to the front facade shall be provided to the sides and rear of the building to mitigate any negative view from any location off-site and any public area (e.g. parking lots, walkways, etc.) on site. b. Detail features. The building shall include architectural features that contribute to visual interest at the pedestrian scale and reduce the massive aesthetic effect by breaking up the building wall, front, side, or rear, with color, texture change, wall offsets, reveals, or projecting ribs. c. Roofs. The roof design shall provide variations in rooflines and add interest to, and reduce the massive scale of, large buildings. Roof features shall complement the architectural and visual character of adjoining neighborhoods. Roofs shall include two (2) or more roof planes. Parapet walls shall be architecturally treated to avoid a plain, monotonous look. d. Materials and color. The buildings shall have exterior building materials and colors that are aesthetically pleasing and compatible with materials and colors that are used in adjoining neighborhoods. This includes the use of high-quality materials and colors that are low reflective, subtle, neutral, or earth tone. Certain types of colors shall be avoided such as  88  fluorescent or metallic although brighter colors in limited quantities as building trims and as accents may be considered at the discretion of the Building Official. Allowed building materials include: 1. Brick 2. Natural stone 3. Split-face block / concrete masonry (CMU) 4. Natural wood and/or cement based artificial siding 5. High grade stucco 6. Glass  Construction materials such as tilt-up concrete, smooth-faced concrete block, prefabricated steel panels, and other similar materials shall be avoided unless the exterior surface is covered with an acceptable architectural treatment. e. Entryways. The building design shall provide design elements which clearly indicate to customers where the entrances are located and which add aesthetically pleasing character to buildings by providing highly-visible customer entrances. f. Screening of mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment shall be screened to mitigate noise and views in all directions. If roof-mounted, the screen shall be designed to conform architecturally to the design of the building either with varying roof planes or with parapet walls. A wood fence or similar treatment is not acceptable. g. Architectural unity. All buildings on the same site shall architecturally unify. This applies to new construction, additions and remodeling. Architectural unity means that buildings shall be related in architectural style, color scheme, and building materials. h. Signage. Sign construction materials, colors, and finishes shall be consistent with the associated buildings. No billboards are allowed on the site. 6.85. Site design and relationship to surrounding community  a. Vehicular access. The use shall provide safety and protection to adjacent residential uses by having motor vehicles access only from an arterial, major road or highway. b. Utilities. All new utilities shall be placed underground. c. Environmental Standards  1. The project shall not cause erosion, flooding, sedimentation, or increase the rate of runoff from the site. Provision shall be made for attenuation of runoff pollutants. The applicant shall supply pre and post development runoff calculations, performed by a certified civil engineer, with application for site plan review. 2. The project shall be designed to minimize the destruction of wetlands, unique natural features, wildlife habitat, and rare or endangered species. Special effort shall be made to maintain wetlands, wetland buffer zones and corridors between wetlands and wooded uplands. d. Buffers. The use shall provide visual and noise buffers as necessary to protect nearby residential uses. No other uses, such as, but not limited to, parking or storage, are permitted  89  within the landscape buffer area except pedestrian amenities. The requirements of Section 6.63 shall apply. e. Outdoor sales. Areas for outdoor sales of products may be permitted if they are extensions of the sales floor into which patrons are allowed free access. Such areas shall be incorporated into the overall design of the building and the landscaping and shall be permanently defined and screened with walls and/or fences. Materials, colors and design of screening walls and/or fences shall conform to those used as predominant materials and colors on the building. If such areas are to be covered, then the covering shall be similar in materials and colors to those that are predominantly used on the building façade. No product such as fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides, cement, etc, containing toxic chemicals shall be stored in any uncovered outside location where they might enter the storm water drainage system in the event of any spillage, breakage or tearing of container. Outdoor storage sheds and containers shall be kept behind the principal building and shall be screened to eliminate visibility from adjacent property or public right of way. f. Parking. Parking areas shall be distributed around large buildings in order to shorten the distance to other buildings and public sidewalks, and to reduce the scale of large paved surfaces. No more than sixty (60) percent of parking area shall be located in front of the principal building. Landscaping shall be used to define parking areas, primary vehicular drives and pedestrian areas. One (1) parking space shall be provided for every three hundred (300) sq. ft. of gross enclosed floor area. No single parking area shall exceed 120 spaces unless divided into two or more sub-areas by a building, internal landscaped street, or landscaped pedestrian way. Decorative, commercial-quality, bicycle racks, cart return areas, benches and trash receptacles shall be required and shall be approved by the Building Official. Landscaped islands shall be placed at the ends of long rows of parking spaces. For out parcels, no more than 20 percent of the parking shall be located between the building front and the adjacent right-of-way. g. Pedestrian flows. The project shall provide pedestrian accessibility, safety, and convenience to reduce traffic impacts and enable the development to project a friendly inviting image. Sidewalks at least six (6) feet wide shall be provided along all sides of the lot that abut a public street. Continuous internal walkways, no less than five (5) feet in width shall be provided from the public sidewalk or right-of-way to the principal customer entrance of all principal buildings on the site. All internal walkways shall be distinguished from driving surfaces through the use of durable, low maintenance surface materials such as pavers, bricks or scored concrete to enhance pedestrian safety and comfort, as well as the attractiveness of the walkways. Internal walkways remote from the building shall be a minimum of five (5) feet wide and provide a minimum of six (6) feet of landscaped area parallel to the walkway. Said landscaped area shall contain shade trees a maximum of thirty (30) feet on center. Where parking spaces abut internal walkways wheel stops shall be provided to prevent vehicular encroachment over the walkway or landscaped area. Landscaped strips and islands may be constructed at or below the grade of the parking surface so as to accept surface water runoff. Where walkways and landscaped areas are not raised and curbed, they shall be defined by wheel stops or other protective devices. Walkways shall also connect the store to transit stops on or off-site and to nearby residential neighborhoods. Walkways shall be provided along the full length of any  90  building where it adjoins a parking lot. Internal pedestrian walkways shall provide weather protection features such as awnings or arcades within 30 feet of all customer entrances. Alternative design solutions for these pedestrian-circulation requirements that meet and exceed the intent and purpose of this section and this ordinance may be approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. h. Central features and community spaces. The project is to provide attractive and inviting pedestrian scale features, spaces, and amenities. Entrances and parking lot locations shall be functional and inviting with walkways conveniently tied to logical destinations. Transit stops and/or customer drop-off/pick-up points shall be provided and integrated into the design and should not conflict with traffic lanes or pedestrian paths. Shelters with seating shall be provided at transit stops. Special design features such as towers, arcades, porticos, light fixtures, planter walls, seating areas, and other architectural features that define circulation paths and outdoor spaces shall anchor pedestrian ways. Examples are outdoor plazas, patios, courtyards, and window shopping areas. Each development should have at least two of these areas. i. Delivery, loading, and trash collection, removal or compaction. Delivery, loading, and trash operations shall be designed and located to mitigate visual and noise impacts to adjoining residential neighborhoods. If there is a residential use or residentially zoned property adjacent to the site, such operations shall not be permitted between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. For good cause shown, the Planning Commission may permit deliveries at additional times provided the applicant submits evidence that sound barriers between all areas for such operations effectively reduce emissions to a level of forty-five (45) dB or less, as measured at the lot line of any adjoining property. All delivery, loading, and trash collection, removal or compaction areas that are not within an enclosed building must be screened or recessed so that they are not visible from public streets, public sidewalks, internal pedestrian walkways, or adjacent residential properties. j. Outdoor lighting. The applicant must provide an outdoor lighting plan which provides information on how outdoor lighting will be accomplished to minimize impacts on adjacent properties or roadways. This can be accomplished by aiming the lights down and placing hoods on them. The light element should not protrude below the lower edge of the hood. To minimize any indirect overflow of light on adjacent residential properties, the height of any proposed parking lot light standard should be as short as possible and should stair step down to a lower height when close to residential uses or residentially zoned properties. k. Landscaping. Each parking area shall be surrounded by a ten-foot wide landscaped area around its edge. Shade trees are also required in the parking areas, with the amount and placement to be determined through consultation with the City Horticulturist at the time of site plan review. In addition, if a lot contains over one hundred (100) parking spaces, an area of not less than twenty (20) feet wide across any side of the site visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent property must be landscaped and screened with berms, hedges, and/or walls at least six (6) feet in height. All requirements of Section 6.61 shall apply. l. Multi-tenant structures. Where principal buildings contain additional, separate stores which occupy less than 30,000 square feet of gross floor area, with separate, exterior customer entrances:  91  1. The street level façade of such stores shall be transparent between the height of 3 feet and 7 feet above the grade of the sidewalk for no less than 60% of the horizontal length of the building facade for each such store. 2. No window shall consist of reflective glass. 3. Along each façade with multiple exterior customer entrances, there shall be a sidewalk a minimum of eight (8) feet wide connecting all entryways. At least sixty (60) percent of said facade shall include a canopy, arcade, or other architectural and functional overhang that extends from the facade to a minimum of six (6) feet over the sidewalk. 6.86. Maintenance of Vacant Buildings The following conditions shall also apply to Property Owners of any vacant structure where gross enclosed floor space equals or exceeds 65,000 square feet, regardless of when the building was erected:  a. The Property Owner will maintain the exterior of the building so as to keep the appearance similar to that when the building was fully occupied. b. The Property Owner will maintain the landscaped areas in accordance with landscape plans approved by the City and in the same condition as such areas were maintained when the store was open to include, but not limited to adequate water and weeding. c. The Property Owner will maintain the parking area in the same condition as such area was maintained when the store was open. d. The Property Owner will maintain the cleanliness of the entire site by removing at least weekly any trash, rubbish, or other debris deposited or accumulated on the site. 6.87 Approval Compliance with these regulations shall initially be determined by the Building Official or Horticulturist. In the event of a dispute between the Building Official or Horticulturist and the applicant as to what constitutes compliance, the applicant shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. 92  This page is intentionally left blank 93  ARTICLE SEVEN ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT  Section 7.1. Administration  7.11. Administration The provisions of this ordinance shall be administered by the Eufaula City Council in accordance with the authority granted by Section 11-52-1 et seq. of the 1975 Code of Alabama, as amended. 7.12. Administrator The Eufaula City Council shall designate a Zoning Administrator to work in conjunction with the Building Inspector to effect proper administration of this Ordinance. The Zoning Administrator and/or Building Inspector shall have the right to enter upon any premises during a reasonable period of time prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for the purpose of making inspections of the building or premises necessary to carry out his/her duties in the administration and enforcement of this ordinance. Section 7.2. Enforcement  7.21. Building Permit It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for, the construction of, placement of, or erection of any building or other structure, including accessory structures, or to store building materials or erect temporary field office, or to commence the moving, alteration, or repair (except repairs not changing the character of the structure and not exceeding $1,000 in cost, or painting or wallpapering) or any structure, including accessory structures, until the Zoning Administrator and Building Inspector have issued for such work a building permit including a statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure in all respects conform with the provisions of this Ordinance. Except on the written order of the Board of Adjustment, no building permit shall be issued for any building or accessory structure where the erection, placement, construction, addition, alteration or use thereof would be in violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance. Application for a building permit shall be made to the Zoning Administrator on forms provided for that purpose. 7.22. Application Requirements  7.221. It shall be unlawful for the Zoning Administrator to approve any plans and for the Building Inspector to issue a building permit for any placement, erection, excavation or construction of a building and/or accessory structure until he has inspected such plans in detail and found them in conformity with this Ordinance. To this end, the Zoning Administrator shall require that every application for a building permit for the placement, erection, excavation, construction, use of land, moving or alteration be accompanied by a plan or plat, drawn to scale, showing:  a. The location, shape, area and dimensions of the lot. b. The location, dimensions, height and bulk of the structures to be erected, altered or moved and any building or other structures already on the lot. c. The existing and intended use of all such buildings or other structures. 94  d. The proposed number of dwelling units, occupants, employees or other similar users. e. The setback, side yards, open spaces, parking spaces and other such requirements of the applicable zoning district. f. Any other information deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator to determine and provide for the enforcement of this Ordinance. 7.222. If the proposed placement, erection, excavation, construction, moving, or alteration as set forth in the application is in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, the Building Inspector may issue, upon recommendation of the Zoning Administrator, a building permit if the applicant is otherwise qualified accordingly. If an application for a building permit is not approved, the Zoning Administrator shall state in writing on the application the cause for such disapproval. Issuance of a building permit shall in no case be construed as waiving any provision of this ordinance. 7.23. Voiding a Building Permit  7.231. A building permit issued in violation of the ordinance is subject to revocation by action of the Board of Adjustment upon the recommendation of the Building Inspector and the Zoning Administrator. However, in deciding whether or not any issued building permit should be revoked, the Board of Adjustment is directed to consider the reasons behind the improper issuing of the building permit. If the holder of said permit is found not to have materially contributed to the mistake and is found to substantially without fault, and provided further that the holder of the building permit has in good faith substantially prejudiced his position in reliance on said building permit, then said permit should not be revoked even though it was issued in violation of this ordinance, except in most extreme circumstances a danger, present or future, to the public welfare and safety. 7.232. The Zoning Administrator shall make every reasonable effort to notify by certified mail a holder of a building permit which is liable for voiding action before voidance is actually declared by notifying by certified mail at the address given on the application form of the recommendation for revocation and the date, place, and time said recommendation will be heard by the Board of Adjustment. Any action taken by the permit holder after said notification shall be deemed taken at the risk of the permit holder and shall not be considered by the Board of Adjustment in deciding whether or not to revoke under the section. 7.233. Any building permit granted under this Section shall become null and void within one (1) year from the date of issuance of the permit. Extensions for specified periods and documented in writing may be made if the proposed development or construction has passed the first building inspection. 7.234. Notice shall be deemed received when a certified letter is mailed, postage paid, to the address so designated on the permit application. 7.24. Inspection  7.241. The construction or usage affected by any building permit shall be subject to a minimum of two (2) inspections: The first, when the foundation has been completed and  95  building lines have been established; and second, when the building or structure has been completed and ready for occupancy. 7.242. It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit to properly notify the Building Inspector as to the time when the construction will be ready for inspection. Failure to make proper notification of the time for such inspection shall automatically cancel the permit, requiring the issuance of a new permit before construction may proceed or occupancy may be permitted. 7.25. Certificate of Occupancy  7.251. No land or building or other structure or part thereof hereafter erected, moved, or altered in its use shall be used until the Zoning Administrator of the City shall have issued a Certificate of occupancy stating that such land or structure or part thereof is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance. 7.252. Within three (3) days after the owner or his agent has properly notified the Zoning Administrator that a building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to make a final inspection thereof, and to issue a Certificate of Occupancy if the building or premises or part thereof is found to conform with the provisions of this ordinance or, if such certificate is refused, to state the refusal in writing with the cause. 7.26. Penalties  7.261. Any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be fined upon conviction not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) and costs of court for each offense. Each day of such offense shall be a separate offense. 7.27. Remedies  7.271. In case any building or other structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this Ordinance, the Zoning Administrator or any other appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner, who would be especially damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute an injunction, mandamus or other appropriate measure to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use to correct or abate such violations or to prevent occupancy of such building, structure or land. 96  This page is intentionally left blank  97  ARTICLE EIGHT BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT  In order that the objectives of this ordinance may be more fully and equitably achieved, and that there shall be provided a means for competent interpretation of this ordinance, and that adequate but controlled flexibility may be provided in the application of this ordinance, and that the health, safety and welfare of the public may be secured and justice be done, there is hereby established a Board of Adjustment in accordance with the authority granted, governed and controlled by the Code of Alabama, 1975, Section 11-52-80, et seq., as amended. Section 8.1. Establishment and Membership of the Board of Adjustment  8.11. Establishment and Appointment A Board of Adjustment is hereby established. The Board shall consist of five (5) members, each to be appointed for a term of three (3) years by the City Council except that in the first instance one member shall be appointed for a term of three years, two for a term of two years, and two for a term of one year. Members shall be eligible for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. 8.12. Supernumerary In addition to the five (5) regular members, two (2) supernumerary members shall be appointed to serve on such board at the call of the Chairman, only in the absence of regular members, and while so serving have and exercise the power and authority of regular members, Such supernumerary members shall be appointed to serve for three (3) years and shall be eligible for reappointment. 8.13. Removal Each member may be removed for cause by the City Council upon written charges and after a public hearing. 8.14. Vacancies Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. Section 8.2. Meetings, Procedures and Records  8.21. Meetings Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such Chairman, or in his absence the acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. 8.22. Procedures The Board shall adopt and publish its own rules of procedure and keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and of other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record. 98  Section 8.3. Appeals  8.31. Appeals, How Taken  8.311. An appeal may be taken to the Board by any person aggrieved, or by an officer, department, board or bureau of the City affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator and/or Building Inspector. 8.312. Such appeal shall be taken within 15 days of the date of any decision by filing with the Circuit Court and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. 8.32. Stay The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit forthwith to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certified to the Board of Adjustment after the notices of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, In such a case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application or notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. Section 8.4. Hearing  8.41. Hearing  8.411. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. During the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney. 8.412. The following shall serve as a time frame for all applications: 1. Publish public notice in Accordance with section 11.216 seven (7) days prior to hearing date. 2. Post, in a conspicuous place on the property involved, a notice of pending action; such posting is to take place at least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing date. 3. Mailing or delivering a notice thereof to the owners of every lot fronting on the same street within 250 feet of the lot or building in question, and if such lot or building is a corner lot, to every owner of a lot on the side street within 250 feet of such lot or building. Section 8.5. Duties and Powers  8.51. Duties and Powers of the Board of Adjustment The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:  99  8.511. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator and/or Building Inspector in the enforcement or administration of this ordinance, such as: Hear and decide upon requests for the interpretation of the provisions of the ordinance; or Determine the precise location of boundary lines between zoning districts when there is dissatisfaction with a decision upon said subject made by the Zoning Administrator; or Classify a use which is not specifically mentioned along with a comparable permitted or conditional use for purpose of the use regulations of any zoning district; or Decide the validity of the issuance of any building permit, or Determine the off-street parking and loading space requirements of any use which is not mentioned in Article Six, either by classifying it with one of the groups listed in the schedule, or by analysis of the specific need. 8.512. To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the ordinance upon which such Board is required to pass under such Ordinance. a. Before any permit for a special exception is issued, the Board shall make written findings certifying compliance with the following conditions:  Shall not be contrary to public interest and will insure that the spirit of the Zoning Ordinance shall be observed. Shall not permit the establishment within a district any use which is prohibited. Will not cause a substantial adverse effect to property or improvements in the vicinity or in the districts in which the applicant is located. b. Conditions and Safeguards: In granting special exceptions the Board may require conditions and safeguards as deemed appropriate to insure the intent of the Zoning Ordinance. Such conditions may relate to provisions for:  1. Purpose. The proposed use shall be consistent with the City's development objectives established by the Master Plan/Comprehensive Plan. 2. Compatibility. The proposed use shall be in the best interest of the properties in the surrounding area and the general community at large. The proposed use will be reviewed as to its relationship to and effects on the general public with respect to pollution of air, land and water, noise, potential of hazards and congestion, illumination of glare, and restrictions to natural light and circulation of air. 3. Suitability. The proposed use shall be suitable for the property in question and shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained suitably for the anticipated activity. 100  4. Serviceability. The proposed use shall have adequate and available service to all appropriate utilities and facilities such as sanitary storm sewer, water, trash, and garbage collection, etc. 5. Accessibility. The proposed use shall provide adequate ingress and egress, interior circulation of both pedestrian and vehicles, off-street parking, and accessibility to the existing or proposed City street system. 6. Conformity. The proposed use shall be in conformance with all applicable requirements of this Zoning ordinance, where applicable, in accordance with Section 6.5, Site Plan Review and Approval. c. Interpretation of Uses for Special Exceptions: For uses not specifically identified as uses permitted on appeal in the Zoning Ordinance, the Board shall define such uses in terms of their performance, and classify such uses on the basis of their similarity and relation to previously identified uses. d. Where no similar uses have been specified as permitted on appeal, the use shall be deemed prohibited. In such instances, the Board may, if deemed appropriate, initiate a request for amendment of the Zoning ordinance for such use and shall transmit such request to the City Council for consideration. 8.513. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. Before any permit for a variance is issued, the Board shall make written findings certifying compliance with the following specific rules: a. That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district; b. That literal interpretation of the Zoning Ordinance would deprive the applicant, of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same district under the terms of the Zoning ordinance; c. That the special conditions do not result from actions of the applicant (self-imposed hardship); d. That granting of the variance will not confer any special privilege on the applicant that is denied by this ordinance to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district; e. That granting of the variance is in harmony with the intent and purposes of the Zoning Ordinance;  101  f. That the variance will not adversely affect surrounding property, the general neighborhood, or the community as a whole; g. That no nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structure, or buildings in the same district, and no permitted or nonconforming use of land structures, or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance. h. That the variance will not allow the establishment of a use not permissible under the terms of the Zoning Ordinance in the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by terms of the ordinance in said district. 8.514. The Board of Adjustment may grant a variance from the terms of this ordinance for the placement of a mobile home outside of those zones where they are permitted or permitted on appeal. Such applicants shall apply in writing and conform to the guidelines as set forth in Section 8.513 (a) through (h). The placement of a mobile home under these general guidelines shall conform to the character of the neighborhood and exhibit the same type of housing. At least one of the following conditions must exist in order for the Board of Adjustment to grant a variance for a mobile home placement under this section: 1. Age, infirmity, or medical condition requires that an immediate family member live in close proximity on the same lot. The variance is to be reviewed on an annual basis. 2. An owner of a single family lot requires temporary housing during construction of a house or major repair of a house due to damage. The variance shall not exceed a one-year period. 3. An owner of a single family lot requests for placement of a mobile home due to destruction of his home through fire or flood damage. 4. Notwithstanding restrictions contained in this ordinance to the contrary limiting one dwelling on each residential lot or parcel, the Board may allow the placement of a second mobile home on a lot or parcel located within an FAR district if an owner of a single family parcel or lot not less than 34,000 square feet in size has given written permission to an immediate family member to place a second mobile home for said immediate family member’s use on the parcel or lot. For purpose of this exception, an immediate family member shall be defined as a spouse, son, step-son, daughter, step-daughter, mother, father, grandparent, grandchildren, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son-in-law, and daughter-in-law. Provided however no more than two mobile homes may be placed on any one acre of land under this exception. An owner requesting an exception under this provision must provide with their application a copy from the Barbour County Revenue Commission of the tax plat of the area involved together with the parcel I.D. number. All other restrictions and requirements of this ordinance shall apply. No part of any structure so allowed shall be located within forty (40) feet of any other structure or mobile home. In the event the family member for whom this allowance was made ceases to dwell in said mobile home, the allowance shall terminate and a new application must be made to the Board. If the Board denies the new application or if a new application is not made, the second mobile home must forthwith be removed from the property. 102  Mobile homes shall not be permitted in Historic Preservation Areas as defined in Section 12.2 of this Zoning Ordinance. 8.515. Action by the Board In exercising the powers mentioned in Section 11-52-80 of the 1975 Code of Alabama, as amended, such board may, in conformity with the provisions reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made and, to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance or to effect any variation in such ordinance. (a) The Board of Adjustment shall not be required to return the original papers acted upon by it, but it shall be sufficient to return certified or sworn copies thereof or of such portions thereof as may be called on by such writ. The return shall concisely set forth such other facts as may be pertinent and material to show the grounds of the decision appealed from and shall be verified. Section 8.6. Appeals from Action of the Board of Adjustment  8.61. Any party aggrieved by any final judgment or decision of the Board of Adjustment may within fifteen (15) days thereafter appeal therefrom to the Circuit Court by filing with the Board a written notice of appeal specifying the judgment or decision from which appeal is taken. In case of such appeal, the Board shall cause a transcript of the proceedings in the cause to be certified to the Court in which such appeal is taken and the cause in such court be tried de novo. Section 8.7. Conflicting Regulations Whenever the regulations made under authority of 11-52-1 et al require a greater width or size of yards or courts or other open spaces or require a lower height of buildings or a lesser number of stories or require a greater percentage of lot be left unoccupied or impose other higher standards than are required in any other statute or local ordinance or regulations, the provisions of the regulations made under authority of this article shall govern. Wherever the provisions of any other statute or local ordinance or regulation require a greater width or size of yards, courts or other open spaces or require a lower height of buildings or a lesser number of stories or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied or impose other higher standards than are required by the regulations made under authority of this article, the provisions of such statute or local ordinance or regulation shall govern. 103  ARTICLE NINE AMENDMENT  Section 9.1. Zoning Amendment Petition  9.11. The City Council of the City of Eufaula, Alabama, may amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal the regulations, restrictions, boundaries of districts or any provision of this Ordinance. Any member of the City Council may introduce such amendment; or any official, board, commission or any other person may present a petition to the City Council requesting an amendment or amendments to this Ordinance. Section 9.2. Planning Commission Review  9.21. No such amendment shall become effective unless such be first submitted for approval, disapproval, or recommendations to the Planning Commission. If the Planning Commission within thirty (30) days disapproves an amendment after such submittal, it shall require the favorable vote of four (4) members of the City Council to become effective. If the Planning Commission neither approves nor disapproves such proposed amendment within thirty (30) days after such submittal, the proposed amendment shall be deemed as favorable. 9.22. The Planning Commission upon its own initiative may hold public hearings, public notice of such shall be given, for the consideration of any proposed amendment to the provisions of the ordinance, or to the Official Zoning Map, and then report its approval, disapproval or recommendations to the City Council. Section 9.3. Public Hearing on Proposed Amendment  9.31. Upon the introduction of any amendment to this Ordinance or upon the receipt of a petition to amend this ordinance, the City Council shall publish notice of such request for an amendment, together with a notice of the time and place set for public hearing by the City Council on the requested change. Said notice and the proposed amendment shall be published in a paper of general circulation in the manner provided for in Section 11-52-77, 1975 Code of Alabama, as amended. Section 9.4. Time Limit  9.41. After the City Council has voted on the application for rezoning or other amendment to the Zoning ordinance, another application for rezoning of the same tract or parcel of land, or change of the same portion of the Zoning Ordinance will not be considered until a period of one (1) year has elapsed from the date of such action by the City Council. Provided; however, that the City Council may adjust this time period if, in the opinion of a majority of the City Council, an unusual situation or circumstance exists. Section 9.5. Filing Fee  9.51. Fees for said filing of applications to be determined by Planning Commission Policy. A petition or applicant shall be defined as "an owner or owners of several parcels of property requesting the same zone change at the date of their application". Petitioners submitting requests for property not contiguous to each other will be treated as separate submissions and subject to more than one filing fee charge, No petition or application shall be deemed filed for consideration until such fee has been paid. 104  This page is intentionally left blank  105  ARTICLE TEN LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS  Section 10.1. Interpretation  10.11. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this ordinance, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare. Section 10.2. Conflict with Other Ordinances  10.21. In case of a conflict between this ordinance or any part thereof, and the whole or part of any existing or future ordinance of the City of Eufaula, the most restrictive shall in all cases apply. Section 10.3. Validity  10.31. If any Section, Subsection, Clause, Provision or portion of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other Section, Subsection, or part thereof of this Ordinance which is not of itself invalid or unconstitutional. Section 10.4. Penalties and Remedies  10.41. Penalties: In case any building or structure is demolished, erected, placed, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired, converted or maintained, or any structure or land is used in violation of any provision of this ordinance or any amendment hereto hereafter enacted, or in the event of the violation by any property owner(s) of the provisions of this ordinance or any such amendment, such violation shall be held to be a municipal offense the charge for such violation hereof to be brought in and determined by the Recorder's Court of Eufaula, Alabama, or the Municipal Court of Eufaula, Alabama, and the offender, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, either or both; and each day that any structure or land is used in violation of this ordinance shall constitute a separate offense. 10.42. Civil Remedies: In any case in which any building or structure is or is proposed constructed, reconstructed, or any land is, or which is this Ordinance or amendment Eufaula, Alabama, the legal owner of real estate within to be demolished, erected, altered, maintained, placed, or used, proposed to be, used in violation of hereto adopted by the Council of counsel of such municipality or any the District in which such building, structure or land is situated may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute injunction, abatement or any appropriate action or actions, proceeding or proceedings, to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful erection, placement, construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance or use. 106  This page intentionally left blank   107  ARTICLE ELEVEN DEFINITIONS  Section 11.1. General Terms  11.11. For the purposes of this Ordinance, certain terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:  11.111. The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual. 11.112. The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular. 11.113. The word "shall" is mandatory, the word "may" is permissive. 11.114. The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended", "designed", or "arranged to be used or occupied". 11.115. The word "lot" includes the words "plot" or "parcel". Section 11.2. Definition of Words and Phrases  11.21. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "A". Accessory Use or Structure: A use or structure on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or structure. This definition shall further include satellite antennas, which are defined as all parabolic reflectors, spherical sections, antenna arrays, "dishes", and other devices designed or utilized far the purpose of receiving electromagnetic communications from transmitters not located on the earth's surface or for the purpose of transmitting electromagnetic communications to receivers not located on the earth's surface. Alley: Any public or private way set aside for public travel, less than thirty (30) feet in width. Alteration or Altered: As applied to a building, or structure, means a change or re-arrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities or an enlargement, whether by extending on a side or increasing in height, or in the moving from one location or position to another. Apartment House: A building for use as and including at least three (3) independent dwelling units. Automobile Storage or Standing Space: An area reserved and suitable for automobile storage, standing or parking space. Each space shall be a minimum of two hundred (200) square feet in area. Such area shall be provided with a safe vehicular access to a public street or alley. 11.22. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "B". Boarding House: A building other than a hotel, cafe, or restaurant, where, for compensation, meals are provided for three (3) or more persons. 108  Buildable Area: The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have been provided. Building: Any structure constructed or used for residence, business, industry or other public or private purposes, or accessory thereto, and including tents, lunch wagons, dining cars, trailers, billboards, signs, and similar structures whether stationary or movable. Accessory Building: A subordinate building located on the same lot as a principal building and clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal, including, but not limited to, private garages, carports, utility buildings, tool sheds, noncommercial greenhouses, etc., Any portion of a principal building devoted or intended to be devoted to an accessory use is not an accessory building, At no time may an accessory building be used for living quarters. Attached Buildings: A building which has two or more party walls in common with adjacent buildings. Building Area: That portion of the lot occupied I>y the main building, including porches, carports, accessory structures, or other structures, Building Coverage: That percentage of the plot or lot covered by the building area. Building Height: A vertical distance measured from the elevation of a proposed finished grade to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs, and to the deck lines of a mansard roof, and to the mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, or gambrel roof. Detached Building: A building with no party walls. Principal Building: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated, In any residence district any dwelling shall be deemed to be the principal building on the lot on which the same is situated. Semi-Detached Building: A building which has only one party wall in common with an adjacent building. Building Permit: A permit required by this Zoning Ordinance or the Building Code for the placement, erection, construction, alteration, razing or change of use of any structure or building. Building Setback Line or Building Line: A line within and across a lot defining the required minimum yard between any structure and any Adjacent street line. 11.23. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "C"'. Car Title Pawn/Loan Business: a business other than a financial institution that operates under Title 5 of the Alabama Code, Chapter 19A Alabama Pawn Shop Act with a primary business activity of making small short-term consumer loans using the equity value of a car or other vehicle as collateral when the title to such vehicle is owned free and clear by the borrower. For the purpose of this ordinance, this definition shall not include a pawnbroker that is not engaged in a car title pawn business. (Amended 10/6/14; Ord. 2014-10) Carport: A one-story structure attached to the principal building, open and to remain open to weather, to be used for the shelter of an automobile. 109  Cartway: The surface of a street or alley available for vehicular traffic or the area between curbs. Change of Use: An alteration of a building, or change of use thereof existing within a building or on a lot to a new use which imposes other provisions of the Building Code or Zoning Code. Condominium: A multi-unit dwelling, group of multi-unit buildings, townhouse complex, group of townhouse complexes, or any combination thereof, each of whose residents, known as unit owners, enjoys exclusive ownership of his individual apartment or dwelling unit holding fee simple title thereto, while retaining an undivided interest, as a tenant in common, in the common facilities and areas of the buildings and grounds which are used by all the residents. Conversion Apartments: Any dwelling or other building 11.24 Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "D". Dwelling: A house, apartment building, or other building designed or used primarily for human habitation. The word "dwelling" shall not include boarding or rooming house, motels, hotels or other structures designed for transient residence. Dwelling, Single-Family: A detached residential dwelling unit other than a mobile home, designed for and occupied by one family only. Dwelling, Mobile Home: A detached residential dwelling unit designed for transportation after fabrication on streets or highways on its own wheels at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other temporary or permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and the like. A travel trailer or recreation vehicle is not to be considered as a mobile home. DWELLING, Manufactured Home: A detached residential dwelling fabricated in an off-site facility after June 15, 1976 and transported to the building site for installation or assembly, bearing a label certifying that the home is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Act of 1974 (USC 5401, ET SEQ.). Dwelling, two-family: A detached residential building containing two dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than two families. Dwelling, Multi-Family: A residential building designed for or occupied by three or more families, with the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided. 11.25. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "E' Essential Community Facilities: The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by public utilities or municipal departments, or commissions, of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution systems, collection, communications, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fir alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or municipal departments or commissions, or for the public health or safety or general welfare. 110  Exterior Security Lighting Systems: (residential areas) Shall be so designed to reflect light away from neighboring properties, Not to be identified with the spot lighting used for security purposes. 11.26. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "F". Family: One (1) or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single, non-profit housekeeping unit. A family shall be deemed to include necessary servants. Floor Area: The gross horizontal areas of all floors measured from exterior walls of the building. Basements and cellars shall not be included in the gross floor area. Frontage, Street: All the property on one side of a street between two streets which intersects such street (crossing or termination measured along the line of a street, or if the street is dead- ended then all of the property abutting on one side between a street which intersects such street and the dead end of the street. 11.27. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "G". Garage, Private: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of a motor driven vehicle owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is accessory. Grade: The average of the finished ground surfaces adjacent to the exterior walls of the building. Guest Home: A building arranged or used for rooming, with or without meals, but for compensation, designed as an accessory use to a single-family dwelling and in which no provision is made for cooking in any of the individual rooms or suites, A guest home must be owner-occupied with the owner of the structure residing permanently on the premises. No structural alterations shall be made to the building except as may be necessary for safety purposes, The parking requirements shall be the following: one off-street parking space for each guest room. All guest homes must meet the requirements of the State Health Department. 11.28. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "H". Hotel: Any building or portion thereof which contains at least ten (10) guest rooms intended for occupancy by individuals for compensation whether paid directly or indirectly. 11.29. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "I". None. 11.210. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "J". Junkyard: Shall include any lot or parcel of land on which is kept, stored, bought, or sold, articles commonly known as junk, including scrap paper, scrap metal, and used automobile bodies and parts. 11.211. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "K". Kennel or Stable: The use of any lot for keeping, boarding, or training for fee whether in special buildings or runways or not including but limited to dog and cat kennels and horse stables. 111  11.212. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "L". Lot:  Corner Lot: A lot with two adjacent sides abutting in streets or other public places which has an interior angle of less than 135 degrees at the intersection of the two street lines. A lot abutting in a curved street shall be considered a corner lot if the tangents to the curve at the points of intersection of the sub lot lines with the street line intersect at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. Double-Frontage Lot: A lot which extends from one street to another with frontage on both sides. Lot Depth: The horizontal distance from the street line of a lot to its opposite rear lot line measured in the general direction of the side lot lines. Lot Width: The distance measured between the side lot lines at the required building, setback line; in a case where there is only one side lot line, between such lot line and the opposite lot line. Reverse Frontage Lot: A lot extending between and having frontage on an arterial or collector street and a local street with vehicular access solely from the latter. Lot Lines: A line dividing one lot from another or from a street or any public place. Rear Lot Line: Any lot line which is parallel to or within 45 degrees of being parallel to a street line, except for a lot line that is itself a street line and in the case of a corner lot, the owner shall have the option of choosing which of the two lot lines that are not street lines is to be, considered a rear lot line, In the case of a-lot which is odd shaped, only the one lot line farthest from any street shall be considered a rear lot line. In the case of a triangular lot with no rear lot line, the distance between any point on the building and the corner lot of the farthest from the street shall be at least twice the normally required rear yard. Side Lot Line: Any lot line which is not a street line or a rear lot line. 11.213. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter 'M". Major Auto Repair Main Structure: A structure in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is located. In any residential district any dwelling shall be deemed to be the principal building on the lot on which the same is situated and only one main structure shall be permitted per lot. Modular Home: A manufactured single-family or multi-family dwelling, or an integral part, so constructed that it may be transported from manufacturing site to a permanent site to be permanently fixed to real estate, made up of one or more components and constructed with the same or similar electrical, plumbing, heating, and sanitary facilities as on-site constructed housing, and designed to meet the various construction codes that have been adopted by the City. 112  Motor Court: A building or group of buildings containing one or more guest rooms having separate outside entrances for each room or suite of rooms and for each of which rooms or suites of rooms automobile parking space is provided. 11.214. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "N". Nursing Homes: A licensed establishment which provides full-time convalescent or chronic care or both for three or more individuals who are not related by blood or marriage to the operator, and who, by reason of chronic illness or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves. No care for the acutely ill or surgical or obstetrical services shall be provided in such a home; a hospital shall not be construed to be included in this definition. Nursery School: Any premises or portion thereof used for educational work or parental care of children of less than the age required for enrollment in the public school system. 11.215. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "O". None. 11.216. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "P". Payday Loan Business: a business other than a financial institution that operates under Title 5 of the Alabama Code, Chapter 18A Deferred Presentment Services Act with a primary business activity of making small consumer loans which are usually backed by postdated check or authorization to make an electronic debit against an existing financial account, with loan repayment typically due when the borrower’s next paycheck is issued in order to reclaim the postdated check or cancel the electronic debit. For the purposes of this ordinance, a pay day loan business shall include cash advance service and rapid refund service. (Amended 10/6/14; Ord. 2014-10) Planned Unit Development: A large development consisting of one or more contiguous tracts of land which is planned and developed as an integrated unit conforming to the density requirements for the zone in which it is located but not necessarily to the individual lot size requirements. Public Notice: Notice published in a newspaper of general circulation seven (7) days prior to the public hearing date and/or written notice to the address designated by any applicant. Such notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be considered at the hearing. However, whereby required by State statute, notice shall be deemed as defined in said statute. 11.217. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letter "'Q". None. 11.218. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letters "R' and "S". Rooming Houses: Any building or portion thereof that contains not less than three (3) or more than nine (9) guestrooms that are designed or intended to be used out for occupancy by individuals for compensation whether paid directly or indirectly. 113  Semi-Public Land Uses: Philanthropic and charitable land uses including: Y.M.C.A. 's, Y.W.C.A'.s. Salvation Army, churches and church related institutions, orphanages, human societies, private welfare organizations, non-profit lodges, and fraternal orders, hospitals, Red Cross and other general charitable institutions. 11.219. Definition of Words and Phrases Beginning with the Letters "T"" through "Z". Townhouse: A single-family residential building attached to a series of other single-family residential buildings by not more than two party walls, Townhouses shall be built in groups of not less that four or more than eight townhouses connected by party walls which shall have a minimum air space of one inch between each, As uses herein, townhouse refers to single- family residential buildings, as described above, intended for sale to individuals and families, and not to residential units intended for rental purposes, whatever their configuration, Townhouses shall be platted on their own individual lots. Use: The purpose for which the land or a building or other structure is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. 114  This page is intentionally left blank  115  ARTICLE TWELVE SPECIAL REVIEW PROCEDURES The purpose of this Article is to insure adequate review of specific developmental schemes that have direct influence on neighboring or contiguous land use districts. This review is so intended to protect the private and public values and interest in residential and business districts. Section 12.1. Planned Unit Developments The intent of this section is to provide an opportunity for the best use of land, protection of valuable natural features in the community, and economical public services. The purpose of this provision is to encourage the unified development of tracts of land by permitting, within the confines of an overall density limitation, more creative and flexible concepts in site planning than would be possible through the strict application of requirements established in this Zoning Ordinance. When such feasibility is permitted, Planned Development project design and construction shall follow a carefully devised plan of development which shall be prepared in accordance with the standards, procedures and approvals herein prescribed. 12.11. The following classes of planned unit developments are established:  12.111. “A” (Fixed Dwelling) Planned Unit Developments A group of two (2) or more fixed dwelling structures, together with other permitted uses, on a parcel of ground not less than ten (10) acres in area in single ownership, with not less than three hundred (300) feet of frontage on a public street which frontage shall serve as the principal means of access to the property. “A” PUDs will be allowed in all districts. l2.112. “B” (Mobile Home) Planned Unit Residential Developments Within the scope of the general purpose of Planned Developments, the purpose of this class is to recognize the increasing demand for the mobile home development type of residential area, and to provide for the appropriate development of such areas. It is intended to provide locational requirements and development standards which will lead to the development of stable and desirable mobile home developments, compatible with other uses in the vicinity. Plans may be submitted for any parcel of land of five (5) acres or more in single ownership, zoned appropriately, for a mobile home planned unit development. “B” PUDs will be allowed in MH, MHR, and FAR Districts. “B” PUDs may be either mobile home parks with rental spaces and/or mobile homes, or mobile home subdivisions with ownership lots. 12.113. “C” Commercial Planned Unit Developments Within the scope of the general intent of the Planned Developments, the purpose of this class is to recognize that tracts of land of considerable size can be developed, redeveloped, or renewed as integrated and harmonious units for commercial uses. The provisions of this ordinance may be applied to: any shopping center, retail structure or group of structures including those contained under one roof, having a total planned floor area of more than 13,000 square feet; any light industrial park or distribution warehouse of fifteen (15) acres; or heavy industrial park or distribution warehouse of twenty (20) acres. 116  12.12. General Regulations The following general regulations shall apply to all Planned Unit Developments which:  12.121. Shall be in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan or portion thereof as it may apply. 12.122. Shall be consistent in all respects with the purposes and intent of this Zoning Ordinance. 12.123. Will advance the general welfare of the city and immediate vicinity. 12.124. Will provide, through desirable arrangement and design, benefits which justify the deviations from development standards which would otherwise apply. 12.125. If it is determined that the development is a subdivision according to the laws of Alabama or the ordinances of the City of Eufaula, it shall also be reviewed and approved according to the Subdivision Regulations of the City of Eufaula, Alabama. 12.13 General Development Regulations The following development regulations shall apply to all Planned Unit Developments,  12.131. Provisions of residential districts as applicable shall be adhered to in all Planned Unit Developments. Zero lot line developments are permitted. 12.132. All land proposed in the project for residential use, including outdoor use of space, off- street parking, interior drives and other circulation ways, may be counted in complying with the density requirements. 12.133. For any single family or two family dwelling or any dwelling unit in a townhouse building there shall be a privately occupied area. This private space shall include the space occupied by such dwelling or dwelling unit, with adjoining open space assigned exclusively to such dwelling unit of not less than six hundred (600) square feet in addition to private parking area if any. 12.134. All open space not assigned to private occupancy as set forth above shall be assigned to the common use of all residents of the development, with such use assured in perpetuity. Assignment and development of such open spaces shall be as follows: 1. Access driveways. 2. Landscaped areas, comprising no less than ten (10) percent of all common open space required by this section, may include the following:  a. Pedestrian access walkways. b. Children's play areas. c. General landscaped areas, flower gardens and areas for passive recreation. d. Swimming pools, including accompanying accessory structures, and areas for organized sports. e. Any other areas suitable for the common enjoyment of the resident. 117  12.135. Every residential structure in a development shall be within two hundred (200) feet of a hard surfaced access drive no less than twenty (20) feet wide or a parking lot connected with such a drive. In addition, every dwelling or ground floor dwelling unit shall be directly accessible to service and emergency vehicles. 12.136. Private streets on common easements may be used to provide vehicular access to not more than thirty (30) dwelling units on any one such drive. In all other respects, the system of vehicular circulation for a development shall be provided by dedicated streets complying with the Subdivision Regulations. 12.137. Building spacing requirements should be based on the following factors:  1. Privacy: The minimum building spacing requirement is intended to provide privacy within the dwelling unit. Where windows are placed in only one of two facing walls or there are not windows, or where the builder provides adequate screening for windows, or where the windows are at such a height or location to provide adequate privacy, the building spacing may be reduced. 2. Light and Air: The building spacing provides one method of ensuring that each room has adequate light and air. Building spacing may be reduced where there are not windows or very small window areas and where rooms have adequate provisions for light and air from another direction. 12.14. Uses Permitted  12.141. Principal Uses Dwelling units of a permanent nature, for ownership or rental. On-transient mobile homes are allowed in “B” PUDs. Public parks and specialized recreation centers. 12.142. Uses Permitted on Appeal  1. Home Occupations Facilities for use of residents of the development; for recreation, children's nursery, kindergarten, laundry or similar services, any similar facility. 2. Off-street Parking Lots or Garages Stores of the "local family shopping" or "convenience nature provided (primarily), for the use, of the residents, in any development comprising three hundred (300) more dwelling units, with such commercial facilities subject to requirements in the C-1, Neighborhood Commercial District. Maximum area devoted to such commercial uses shall be one (1) acre or .05 percent of total acreage in the project, whichever is greater. 12.15. Other Requirements  12.151. Location Requirements: Each Planned Unit Development  1. Shall be free of objectionable environmental characteristics, such as poor drainage, air pollution, undue noise, unsightliness and similar problems, to the same degree as other residential area. 118  2. Shall be so located as to assure a maximum of compatibility with other types of development. 12.152. Open Space, Site Size and Density  1. Minimum Site Size: Ten (10) acres for fixed Planned Unit Development; five (5) acres for a mobile home Planned Unit Development. 2. Maximum Density: Fourteen (14) units per acre. 3. Property Line Setback: Forty (40) feet. 4. Minimum Usable Open Space: Twenty-five percent (25%)  12.16. Development Bonuses for Fixed Dwelling Developments In order to encourage provision of innovative designs, lessen costs of providing public services, lower housing costs for individuals and encourage provision of amenities in small residential, commercial development, a schedule of development bonuses is set forth giving additional dwelling units for residential developments and additional amounts of floor area for other uses. 12.161. In exercising the development bonuses option, the following principles must be sustained:  1. Bonuses are only permitted in the specified districts. 2. For residential areas, the maximum permitted density within the zoning district cannot be exceeded. 3. Schedule of Development Bonuses: Residential Amenity Factor Bonus (Density)  Clustering of buildings 10% increase in dwelling units (d.u.'s). Provision of plazas, malls, and other internal pedestrian systems --15% increase in d.u. 's  Preservation of irreplaceable features (natural or man-made) --10% increase in d.u. 's Construction of portions of planned linear parks or bike systems --10% increase in d.u. 's Distinctive landscape or streetscape furnishing (e.g. signs, benches) --15% increase in d.u. 's  Public facilities, including site, building or facility --25% increase in d.u. 's space  Additional improved common open space --10% of each, 10% of area added  12.17. Special Requirements for Mobile Home Developments  12.171. Park or Subdivision Size, Density, Lot Width  1. Minimum Site: Five (5) acres. 119  2. Maximum Density: Fourteen (14) mobile homes per acre, or one (1) per lot or space. 3. Minimum Site Width on Major Traffic Artery: One Hundred (100) feet. 12.172. Individual Lot and Structure Requirement The following shall apply:  1. Each mobile home lot shall have a minimum area of four thousand (4,000) square feet, and have width of not less than fifty (50) feet. 2. Mobile homes shall be located on lots with a minimum setback from access street of twenty (20) feet and five (5) feet from any other lot line, provided that no mobile home shall be closer to any mobile home than fifteen (15) feet unless clustered in appropriate manner. 3. Each mobile home space shall be improved with one patio of concrete, or other suitable impervious material, having a minimum area of one hundred fifty (150) square feet, and one gravel or better home pad of size equal to or greater than the dimensions of the trailer located on the pad, but in no case less than ten (10) feet by forty (40) feet. 4. Permanent structures located within any mobile home lot shall be used for storage purposes only, and shall have a maximum area of eighty (80) square feet and shall be located not less than six (6) feet from any mobile home, nor closer to any lot lines than provided in the residential district in which located. 5. No permanent additions of any kind shall be built onto, or become a part of any mobile home; provided, however, that this provision shall not be construed to prohibit the addition to the mobile home of a patio cover or carport cover if same is not permanently attached to the ground. Such patio covers or carport covers shall be similar in appearance and design to the mobile home. 6. All mobile homes shall be secured by tie-downs for protection from wind damage to units and adjacent property, in accordance with state statute. 7. No later than thirty (30) days after placement of a mobile home dwelling on a site, the area between the bottom of the unit and the ground shall be enclosed by screening or skirting on all sides and ends. 12.173. Application for Zoning Application to the Planning Secretary for the use of land as a mobile home subdivision under this Ordinance shall be accompanied by a development plan showing compliance with the requirement of this Ordinance. 12.18. Review Procedures for all Planned Developments 12.181. The developer should schedule an initial planning meeting with the Planning Commission Chairman and Planning Staff. 12.182. For the initial planning meeting a sketch plan of the proposed project should be furnished by the developer. 12.183. If during the initial meeting it is determined that the project is a subdivision as defined by Alabama law or an Ordinance of the City of Eufaula, the developer shall comply with all requirements of the Subdivision Regulations. 120  12.184. The following points should be discussed with the developer:  1. The present uses and character of the area. 2. The road and street system, especially peripheral streets and proposed internal circulation pattern as related to requirements for Planned Unit Developments. 3. Public and private open area and parks and trails. 4. Public utilities and services or their counterpart such as water, sewer, fire protection, surface drainage, school facilities, if any. 5. Type of structures to be built. 6. Proposed uses to be developed. 12.185. The Preliminary Plan The developer, after receiving general approval of the sketch plan from the City staff, shall prepare and submit a Preliminary Plan for review, before submission of the Final Plan. The purpose of a Preliminary Plan is to provide an opportunity for somewhat detailed showing of the intent of the developer with regard to requirements spelled out in this Section, at as little expense as possible, using the following procedures:  1. After review of the preliminary plan by the administrative staff for conformance with requirements of this Section, the Plan will receive review by the Planning Commission and, if a rezoning of land will be necessary to accommodate the project, this Plan can be used for the public hearing, to be held in accordance with Alabama law. 2. Maps and Written Statement: Maps and a written statement setting forth the details of the proposed development shall be included in the Preliminary Plan. The maps must show enough of the area surrounding the proposed development to demonstrate the relationship of the Planned Development to the adjoining uses, both existing and those proposed by the developer. The maps shall be in a general schematic form and contain the following information, and as appropriate, the facilities are to be identified as to whether they are to be public or private. Maps to include the following information: a. The approximate topography; b. Proposed land uses and the approximate location of existing and proposed buildings and other structures and uses adjacent to the site; c. The character and approximate density of the dwellings; d. The approximate location of all streets and rights-of-way, and walkways, and parking facilities; e. Public uses including schools, parks, playgrounds, and other open spaces; f. Number of parking spaces;  g. Amount of impervious surface;  121  h. Generalized drainage plan; i. Development staging, if appropriate. The written statement shall contain an explanation of:  a. The character of the proposed development and the manner in which it has been designed to take advantage of the Planned Development Concept; b. The proposed sewage disposal facilities; c. Water supply and surface drainage provisions; d. The manner of financing proposed; e. The present ownership of all of the land included within the Planned Development Project; f. The method proposed to maintain private common open area, building or other facilities; g. The general indication of the expected schedule of development. 3. If, after a public hearing, the Planned Development Project is approved, any rezoning needed shall be instituted, subject to revocation and reversion to the original zoning of the land if the final plan is not approved. 4. In the event approval has been conditioned on modifications to the plan, then such Preliminary Plan approval shall not be effective until the developer has filed the modifications as required. 5. If the developer wishes to develop the Planned Development Project in stages, the Final Plan submitted for review and approval may cover only the first stage to be developed but succeeding stages of the Final Plan must be in substantial conformance to the approved Preliminary Plan. 6. If a Final Plan covering at least a portion of the area in the Preliminary Plan has not been filed within one (1) year, the approval shall expire. The approval may be extended for additional periods not to exceed six (6) months each when necessary. 12.186. The Final Plan The Final Plan provides a specific and particular plan by which development and construction will take place. 1. In addition to those items specified for the Preliminary Plan, the Final Plan must include:  a. A map showing:  (1) Street location and nature of improvements;  (2) Lot lines and lot designs;  (3) The landscaping and tree planting plan;  (4) Surface drainage system;  (5) Peripheral setback (40 feet); and;  122  (6) All easements. b. Areas proposed to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved for parks, parkways, playground, school sites, public buildings, and similar public and semi-public uses, if appropriate. c. A plot plan for each building site, except single family lots and the common open area, showing the approximate location of all buildings, structures, and improvements and indicating the open spaces around buildings and structures. d. Elevation and perspective drawings of all typical proposed structures and improvements except single family residences and their accessory buildings. The drawings need not be in construction detail. e. A development schedule indicating:  (1) The approximate date when construction of the project can be expected to begin; (2) The stages in which the project will be built and the approximate date when construction of each stage can be expected to begin; (3) The approximate dates when the development of each of the stages in the development will be completed; and, (4) The area and location of common open space that will be provided at each stage. f. Agreements, provisions, declarations or covenants which govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the Planned Development Project and any of its common open areas. g. The following plans and diagrams will be provided when the local planning agency finds that the Planned Development creates special problems of traffic or parking:  (1) An off-street parking and loading area plan; (2) A circulation diagram indicating the proposed movement of vehicles, goods and pedestrians within the Planned Development and to and from existing thoroughfares. Any special engineering features and traffic regulation devices needed to facilitate or insure the safety of this circulation pattern must be shown. 2. The Plan shall be accompanied by a written agreement, in a form acceptable to the City Attorney, on behalf of the owner, his successors and assigns as follows: a. That the proposed development, as shown on the plans and as set forth in specifications, will be completed in every detail within such time period as may be agreed upon by the Planning Commission; b. That all land improvements intended for the common use of all residents, including drives, walks, parking areas, recreation facilities and equipment and all landscaped or other common open space will be maintained in perpetuity, including such servicing as may be required for the use of such land improvements; c. That no future changes in the development shall be made which would encroach upon the land used to comply with the requirements of this Chapter as to density, open space,  123  yards, courts, vehicular access, automobile parking, building coverage or other outdoor requirements; and, d. That all easements for private drives r utility lines and similar purposes shall be open at all times for access by publicly employed personnel and equipment for policy and fire protection, for inspection of utility systems and for any other public purpose. 12.187. Final Plan Approval The following shall govern approval of a Final Plan. 1. The Planning Commission shall compare the Final Plan with the Preliminary Plan and with the standards set forth in this Section. If the Final Plan conforms to the standards set forth in this Section, the Planning Commission shall recommend and the City Council grant approval of the Plans. The City Council may place conditions upon the granting of approval, which in its judgment will insure conformance to the plan as approved. 2. The approval of the Final Plan shall be valid for a period of one (1) year following the date of such approval. At its discretion, the Council may extend Final Plan approval for an additional six-month period. 3. Factors to be considered by the city staff, the Planning Commission, and the City Council in reviewing any Planning Unit Development are that the development is in harmony with the Land Use Plan and with the character of the neighborhood and will provide an overall density and standard of open space as required by this ordinance. 4. The Final Development Plan or any stage of the Planned Development shall not be approved if the average of the allowable dwelling units per acre, up to and including the stage which is to be approved, exceeds by more than 10 percent the average number of dwelling units per acre which is allowable for the entire Planning Development. 5. Upon final approval and after all conditions have been met, the City Council shall approve the recording of the Final Development Plan in the deed records. When no parcels are to be sold, the developer will process and have recorded the subdivision plat in the manner designated for the City. 6. The determination of substantial conformance between the Preliminary Plan and the Final Plan shall be at the discretion of the City. Variation in conformance is intended solely to facilitate the minor adjustments which may be necessary as the plans approach a final construction stage. The City Council may refuse to grant approval of substantial conformance if, in their opinion, the adjustments are being used to significantly modify the approved plan. 12.188. Site Improvements The developer, at his option, may place street improvements, sidewalks, utilities and other permanent site improvements after Preliminary Plan approval or stake the location of the buildings and make application for building permits, Under no circumstances, however, will any building permit be issued until final approval has been granted and the necessary portions of the Final Plan recorded. The placing of improvements will not obligate the local government to approve such improvements on the Final Plan if not in conformance with the terms of this section. 124  12.189. Public Record The Final Plan is the permanent public record of the Planned Development and will be the manner in which the development is constructed as provided herein. 12.1810. Contents The final plan shall contain, in final form, the information required above. In addition, the following will apply:  l. If parcels of land are to be sold, then a subdivision plat in the form prescribed by the law shall be filed for approval in the appropriate manner. 2. If land within the Planned Development Project is not to be sold in individual parcels, then a site plan shall be prepared and filed with the City which is suitable for inclusion in the deed records of the County, and a permanent reproducible transparency of the Final Plan will be filed with the City, which transparency will be placed on file with the City Clerk. Section 12.2. Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone The City of Eufaula and the Water Works and Sewer Board recognize that its residents rely on groundwater for a safe drinking water supply and that certain land uses contaminate groundwater, thus jeopardizing its integrity. Pursuant to the Safe Water Drinking Act, 1974, as amended, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency required states to enact measures to protect the communities’ groundwater supply. The Wellhead Protection Program established by the Alabama Department of Environmental Management sets up such a procedure. To prevent the possible contamination of existing and future potable water wells by future development, the Eufaula Zoning Ordinance and Map will include an overlay zone depicting a 400’ radius around each well. This overlay zone shall be known and described as the Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone. This section shall specify activities, uses and regulation within the Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone to insure the adequate protection of the Eufaula potable water wells. 12.21. Intent To protect existing and future public wellfields from the possibility of contamination by controlling the types of uses within the vicinity of such wellfield. 12.21. Regulated Uses  1) The following uses will not be permitted within 400’ of any public well, unless adequate measures are implemented to ensure wellhead protection to the satisfaction of the Eufaula Water Board Engineer, ADEM, the Wellhead Protection Committee and other appropriate City and Water Board officials. a) Sanitary or industrial landfills or other surface impoundment. b) Wastewater Treatment Plants, percolation ponds or similar facilities except individual single family residential on-site wastewater disposal facilities (septic tank). c) Facilities that produce, use or store hazardous materials at or above established threshold amount listed in Title III of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C., a.11001, et. seq. (SARA) and other State and Local Codes that establish similar threshold requirements. 125  d) Junkyards or salvage operations e) Mines f) Airport refueling facilities g) Activities that require the storage, use or transportation of restricted substances, petroleum products, hazardous toxic waste, medical waste, etc. h) Excavation of waterways or drainage facilities that intersect the water table. i) Feedlots or other commercial animal facilities. 2) Within 100’ of any public well the following criteria shall apply: a) Existing wells  i) No septic systems shall be installed and all proposed development shall connect to central water and sewer. ii) All existing development not currently connected to central sewer and water shall be required to connect within 90 days of notification that such facilities are available. b) Future Wells   There shall be no development within this radius. 3) Sewer mains and surface water treatment systems shall not be located within 100’ of any public well. Section 12.3. Flood Hazard Areas  12.31. Statement of Intent It is the intent of the floodway and flood fringe portions of the flood hazard area to provide protection from the hazards and losses caused by flooding to residents, businesses, industries, and public uses of the community, 'and to protect sensitive natural environments that might be damaged by improper use of the floodway fringe. The boundaries of the flood hazard district shall include, as a minimum, the flood prone areas defined by the Federal Flood Insurance Administration and may include other flood prone areas as identified by the City of Eufaula. 12.32. Floodway Uses Permitted The following uses are permitted which have low-flood damage potential and do not threaten other lands during times of flood and do not require storage of materials, structures, flood control works, or substantial filling or grading and do not include the use of channels or flood ways, streams, drainage ditches or any other drainage facility or system. l. Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting. 2. Industrial-commercial related uses such as loading areas, parking areas, airport landing strips, circuses, carnivals, and similar transient amusement enterprises. 3. Private and public recreational uses such as marinas, golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic areas, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parking, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting ranges, target ranges, trap and skeet  126  ranges, hunting and fishing areas, hiking and horseback riding trails, temporary moveable structures for the sale of food and refreshment, arts and crafts. 4. Residential related uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas. 12.33. Floodway Uses Permitted on Appeal  1. Drive-in theaters, new and used car lots, roadside stands, signs and billboards, storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials. 2. Railroad streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and pipelines. 3. Kennels and stables 4. Construction of sand, gravel and other materials, substantial grading filling, excavational alteration, and natural protective barriers only if extraction activities will not result in damage to the flood or drainage system itself or destroy natural protective barriers. 12.34. Standards for Floodway Uses Permitted on Appeal No structure, storage of materials or equipment, or their use may be allowable as a use permitted on appeal which, acting alone or in combination with existing or future uses, will significantly cause flood damages to other lands or accelerate erosion. All buildings or structures, temporary or permanent, within the floodway prone area shall:  l. Be designed with a low flood potential. 2. If permitted, shall be constructed and placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters. 3. Structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation, which may result in damage to other structures. 4. Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be floodproofed or constructed at or above the regular flood protection elevation for the particular area. 5. Storage of materials and equipment within the flood prone area shall:  a. Not include the storage or processing of materials that are in the time of flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or plant life. b. Be allowed if such materials or equipment are not subject to major damage by flood and are firmly anchored to prevent flotation or are readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning. 12.35. Flood Fringe Uses Permitted Uses permitted shall be allowed in the immediately adjacent area as determined by moving perpendicularly away from the waterway. The flood fringe shall be interpreted as overlaying that zone and impose the following construction limitations. No building or structure shall be erected and no existing building structure shall be extended or moved unless the main floor of said building or structure is placed one (1) foot above the elevation subject to flood as defined by the studies prepared by the Flood Insurance Administration or the Corps of Engineers. No basement floor or other floor shall be constructed  127  below or at a lower elevation than the main floor unless floodproofed. Foundations of all structures shall be designed to withstand flood conditions at the site. Land may be filled within the flood fringe areas provided such fill extends twenty-five (25) feet beyond the limits of the structure, but does not extend into the floodway. 12.36. Flood Fringe Uses Permitted on Appeal Uses permitted on appeal in the overlaid zone are subject to the same regulations for flood elevations and floodproofing as specified in Section 13.34. 12.37. Uses Prohibited  1. Sanitary landfills. 2. Structures for human habitation. 3. On-site absorption system. 4. Uses which impede the flow of water or raise the upstream flood level. 12.38. Development Requirements  1. Development plans for all proposed uses must be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and approval. 2. All uses must be floodproofed. 3. Sewer and water systems must be located and constructed so as to avoid impairment or contamination during flood. 4. No uses shall adversely affect the efficiency or capacity of the floodway or increase flood heights. 5. There shall be no encroachments into the floodway. 6. Applicant must also obtain any necessary state and federal permits prior to beginning construction. Section 12.4. Transitional Areas of Placement of Mobile Homes  12.41. Purpose of Review Process To allow for the placement of mobile homes on single-family lots of substandard record as in-fill housing where existing homes are of substandard condition that replacement housing of conventional types would not be feasible; and to assure that the mobile home will meet certain specifications and will provide pleasant living conditions for residents while protecting adjacent property. 12.42. Location Mobile homes as in-fill housing will be permitted on appeal in R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 Residential Districts, the M-1, Industrial Districts, and the C-4, Highway Commercial District. Such areas shall be shown on the Official City Zoning Map by means of an overlay symbol and the standard designation for the zone and shall be labeled with the name of the zone followed by the designation "TA" (for example R-2TA). 128  12.43. Placement of Mobile Home in the Transitional Area No mobile home shall be occupied within the city limits unless said mobile home is constructed in accordance with the minimum standards set forth by either the Mobile Home Manufacturer's Association (MHMA), or the Travel Coach Association (TCA), and has displayed permanently on the outside the seal or medallion of either aforementioned organizations certifying that the mobile home was manufactured in accordance with those standards. All mobile homes shall have adequate tie-downs and be skirted with wood, brick, rock, metal, or other suitable material to enhance the appearance. All minimum yard size, minimum lot size, and maximum building area for the zone in which the mobile home is located shall apply. Where water and sanitary/sewer facilities are available within one hundred (100) feet of the lot line, the homeowner shall tie into the existing city utilities. If outside of utility limits then the standards set by the State Health Department shall apply where lot size requirements are in question. No later than thirty (30) days after placement of a mobile home on a site, the area between the bottom of the unit and the ground shall be enclosed by screening on all sides and ends. Section 12.5. Airport Hazard Areas  12.51. Designation of Airport Hazard Areas For the purpose of this ordinance, the following area(s) are designated as airport hazard areas. The area including and within one-eighth (1/8) mile of Weedon Field, a municipally owned airport of the City of Eufaula, and the area including and within one-eighth (1/8) mile of any helipad, public or private. The areas are more particularly shown or described in the “The Zoning Map of Eufaula”. Said map and all explanatory matter thereon are hereby adopted and made part of this ordinance. 12.52. Number and Type of Districts and Boundaries For the purpose of this ordinance, airport hazard areas are hereby divided into the same number and type of districts and with the same designation or names as listed in Article 5 of this Zoning Ordinance, except as specified below, and the boundaries of the said districts are hereby established as shown on the Eufaula Zoning Map. 12.53. Regulations Within an airport hazard area the following regulations shall apply:  (a) For airports only:  (1) No building shall exceed one story or twenty (20) feet in height except with the written approval of the Board of Adjustment. (2) Within the approach and departure path, no structure, tree or other obstacle shall exceed the height of a forth to one (40:1) slope. (b) For helipads:  (1) No structure, tree or other obstacle shall exceed the height of a two to one (2:1) slope from the helipad. (2) Within the approach and departure path, no structure, tree or other obstacle shall exceed an eight to one (8:1) slope. 129  12.54. Administration and Enforcement Within an airport hazard area, the Board of Adjustment shall act as the “Administrative Agency” and review all requests for land development within Airport Hazard Areas. The provisions of this ordinance within an Airport Hazard Area shall be administered and enforced by the Building Official. 130  This page is intentionally left blank  131  ARTICLE THIRTEEN REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE  Section 13.1. Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances 13.11. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this Zoning ordinance, or inconsistent with provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give this ordinance full force and effect. Section 13.2 Effective Date 13.21. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force immediately after adoption and publication as required by law. ADOPTED AND APPROVED by the City Council of the City of Eufaula this the 3rd day of November, 1986. /s/ Mac W. Clark   Council President Pro Tempore /s/ Linda M. Walden City Clerk  This ordinance has been updated by including the following ordinances:  Ordinance 1987-24 Ordinance 1988-9 Ordinance 1988-10 Ordinance 1990-2 Ordinance 1994-2 Ordinance 1996-10 Ordinance 1996-17 Ordinance 1997-8 Ordinance 1998-1 Ordinance 1998-6 Ordinance 1999-11 Ordinance 2000-2 Ordinance 2002-8 Ordinance 2004-2 Ordinance 2005-5 Ordinance 2007-6 Ordinance 2007-8 Ordinance 2008-6 Ordinance 2012-7 Ordinance 2014-7 Ordinance 2014-10       CITY OF VALLEY ZONING ORDINANCE  ORDINANCE NO. 99-07           ADOPTED JUNE 28TH. 1999  AMENDED February 2020    Original Ordinance prepared by House Consultants Birmingham, Alabama   NOTE: THIS IS A COMPILATION OF THE CITY OF VALLEY ZONING ORDINANCE WITH ALL AMENDMENTS TO DATE. IT IS FORMATTED BY THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT STAFF AND MADE AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE. IT IS HOWEVER A COMPILATION. FOR MORE INFORMATION ON PREVIOUS AMENDMENTS, CONTACT THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT. 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS  ARTICLE I SHORT TITLE 5  ARTICLE II  PURPOSE AND METHOD  5  Section 1.0  Purpose  5 Section 2.0 Method 6  ARTICLE III  ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES  7  Section 1.0  General Administration  7 Section 2.0 Zoning Amendments 11 Section 3.0 Board of Zoning Adjustment 13  ARTICLE IV  DEFINITIONS  16  ARTICLE V  GENERAL REGULATI0NS  23  Section 1.0  General Use Requirements  23 Section 2.0 Nonconforming Uses of Land and Buildings 24 Section 3.0 Annexed Property 26 Section 4.0 Abandoned Right-of-Way 26 Section 5.0 Access to Public Streets 26 Section 6.0 Area Modification of Lots of Record 26 Section 7.0 General Yard and Building Setback Modifications 27 Section 8.0 Height Modifications 27 Section 9.0 Eaves, Porches, Decks and Accessory Structures 27  ARTICLE VI  ZONING DISTRICTS  28  Section 1.0  Forestry-Agriculture-Recreation District (FAR)  28 Section 2.0 Rural Residential District (RR) 31 Section 3.0 Low Density Residential District (R-1) 33 Section 4.0 Medium Density Residential District (R-2) 34 Section 5.0 Medium Density Residential District (R-3) 36 Section 6.0 Medium Density Residential District (R-4) 38 Section 7.0 Medium Density Residential District (R-5) 41 Section 8.0 High Density Residential District (R-6) 44 Section 9.0 Manufactured Home Subdivision District (MHR) 46 Section 10.0 Manufactured Home Park District (MH) 48  3 Section 11.0 Institution District (I) 51 Section 12.0 Office District (O) 52 Section 13.0 Neighborhood Business District (C-1) 53 Section 14.0 Local Business District (C-2) 55 Section 15.0 Community Business District (C-3) 57 Section 16.0 Light Industrial District (M-1) 60 Section 17.0 Heavy Industrial District (M-2) 61 Section 18.0 Planned Development District (PDD) 63 Section 19.0 Redevelopment District (RD) 73 Section 20.0 Park District (PK) 74 Section 21.0 River Park District (RP)                75 Section 22.0 Medical Park District (MP) 77  ARTICLE VII SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS 79  Section 1.0 Fences and Walls 79 Section 2.0 Temporary Structures and Buildings Material Storage 79 Section 3.0 Outdoor Storage of Recreational and Other Vehicles 79 Section 4.0 Storage of Inoperable Motor Vehicles 80 Section 5.0 Private Swimming Pools 80 Section 6.0 Private Tennis Courts 81 Section 7.0 Storage and Dispensing of Combustible and Flammable Liquids 81 Section 8.0 Each Business to be Located in Permanent Building (Deleted) 81 Section 9.0 Exterior Lighting 82 Section 10.0 Garbage and Trash Containers 82 Section 11.0 Self-Service Storage Facilities 82 Section 12.0 Accessory Antennas 84 Section 13.0 Home Occupations 86   ARTICLE VIII  TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES  88  Section 1.0  Purpose  88 Section 2.0 Section 3.0 Applicability Availability of Suitable Existing Towers and Other Structures 88  90 Section 4.0 Principal Use to be on Lots 90 Section 5.0 Setbacks 90 Section 6.0 Aesthetics and Lighting 90 Section 7.0 Federal Requirements 91 Section 8.0 Building Codes and Safety Standards 91 Section 9.0 Radio Frequency Standards 92 Section 10.0 Permits 93  4  Section 11.0 Section 12.0 Application Requirements Factors Considered When Granting Special Exception Permits for Towers 94  95 Section 13.0 Removal of Abandoned Antennas and Towers 96  ARTICLE IX  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS  97  Section 1.0  Parking Requirements for Specific Uses  97 Section 2.0 Rules in Applying Off-Street Parking Standards     100 Section 3.0 Loading Area Requirements 101  ARTICLE X  BUFFERS AND LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS  102  Section 1.0  Purpose and Objectives  102 0 Section 2.0 Landscaping Plan 102 Section 3.0 Buffers 103 Section 4.0 Landscaping for Parking and Vehicle Areas 104 Section 5.0 Enforcement 105  ARTICLE XI  LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS  106  Section 1.0  Interpretation and Purpose  106 Section 2.0 Serviceability Clause 106 Section 3.0 Effective Date 106  AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE 2005-12 107  AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE 2006-13 109   AMENDED ORDINANCE 2020-  5     AN ORDINANCE, IN PURSUANCE OF THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY TITLE 11, CHAPTER 52, ARTICLE 4, CODE OF ALABAMA, 1975, AS AMENDED AND SUPPLANTED BY ALL APLICABLE LAWS TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF VALLEY, ALABAMA: TO REGULATE WITHIN SUCH DISTRICTS THE HEIGHT, NUMBER OF STORIES, AND SIZE OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES, THE PERCENTAGE OF LOTS THAT MAY BE OCCUPIED, THE SIZE OF YARDS AND OTHER OPEN SPACES, THE DENSITY OF POPULATION AND USE OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND LAND: TO REPEAL ALL EXISTING ZONING ORDINANCES AND TO PROVIDE METHODS OF ADMINISTRATION OF THIS ORDINANCE AND PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF. THE PUBLIC WELFARE REQUIRING IT, be it ordained by the City of Valley, Alabama, as follows:   ARTICLE I. SHORT TITLE  This Ordinance shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of Valley, Alabama,” and the map herein referred to, identified by the title “Zoning Map of Valley, Alabama,” shall be further identified by the signature of the Mayor of Valley and attested by the City Clerk. The zoning map of Valley is hereby adopted and made a part of the Ordinance. Said zoning map shall zone only territory within Valley. Such map is filed with the Clerk of Valley at the time of the introduction of this Ordinance, will remain on file in the office of the said Clerk and upon the adoption of the Ordinance, said map will show by endorsement thereon the date of such adoption. ARTICLE II. PURPOSE AND METHOD Section 1.0. Purpose. The fundamental purpose of this Ordinance is to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare; to provide for the orderly development and growth of Valley; to avoid congestion on the public roads and streets; to conserve life, property and natural resources and the expenditure of funds for public improvements and services to conform with the most advantageous uses of land, resources and properties, for the general good and benefit to the people of Valley. 6    Section 2.0. Method. For the purpose hereinafter stated, the City of Valley is divided into districts of such number, shape and area, and of such common unite of purpose, adaptability or use, which are deemed most suitable to provide for the best general civic use, protect the common rights and interests within each district, preserve the general rights, and interests of all; and by further regulations to limit the location, uses and occupancy of buildings, structures and land to be used for trade, industry, residence or other structures, including the ratio of lots occupancy and coverage, street setback lines, sizes of yards, and other open spaces. 2.1. Zoning Districts. In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the location of buildings designed for specific uses, to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of the land area, and to regulate and determine the areas of open spaces within and surrounding such buildings, the City of Valley, Alabama, is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:  2.11. FAR Forestry, Agriculture and Recreation District  2.12. Residential Districts A. Rural – Residential District B. R-1 Low Density Residential District C. R-2 Medium Density Residential District D. R-3 Medium Density Residential District E. R-4 Medium Density Residential District F. R-5 Medium Density Residential District G. R-6 High Density Residential District H. MHR Manufactured Home Subdivision District I. MH Manufactured Home Park District  2.13. Institution District (I)  2.14. Office District (O)  2.15. Commercial Districts. A. C-1 Neighborhood Business District B. C-2 Local Business District C. C-3 Community Business District 2.16. Industrial Districts A. M-1 Light Industrial District B. M-2 Heavy Industrial District  7  2.17. PDD Planned Development District  2.18. RD Redevelopment District   2.19. Park Districts     A. PK- Park District     B. RP- River Park     C. MP-Medical Park  2.2 Zoning Map. The boundaries of the districts are as shown on the map which shall be known as the “Valley Zoning Map.” Unless otherwise shown on said Zoning Map, the boundaries of districts are lot lines, the centerlines of streets or alleys or such lines extended, railroad right-of-way lines, or the corporate limit lines as they existed at the time of enactment of this Ordinance. 2.3. Interpretation of District Boundaries. The Zoning Administrator shall make an interpretation of the “Valley Zoning Map” upon request of any person. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any district shown on said maps the following rules shall apply:  A. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following street and alley lines o r land lot lines, such lines shall be construed to lie along such boundaries. B. In un-sub-divided property or tracts where a district boundary divides a lot, the location of such boundaries, unless same are indicated by dimensions, shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on such maps. C. Where boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines or street line of streets or to the centerlines or alley lines of alleys or to the centerlines or right-of-way lines of highways, such boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance there from as indicated on the Zoning Map. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the said maps. ARTICLE III. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES Section 1.0. General Administration The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Administrator of the City. This official shall have the right to enter upon any premises at any reasonable time prior to the issuance of certificate of occupancy or occupancy of the dwelling for the purpose of making inspections of buildings or premises necessary to carry out his duties in the enforcement of this Ordinance. 8     1.1 Building Permits. It shall be unlawful to commence earthwork or the construction of  any building or other structure, including accessory structures, signs, or to store building materials or erect temporary field offices, or to commence the moving,      alteration, or repair of any structure, including accessory structure, until the Zoning Administrator of the City has issued for such work a building permit including a statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure in all respects conform with the provisions of this Ordinance. Application for a building permit shall be made to the Zoning Administrator of the City on forms provided for that purpose. Every building permit shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within six months after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after the time the work is commenced. Permits shall be required prior to commencement of any of the following types of work. In case of emergencies, work done after 5:00 pm, holidays, or over the weekend, permits shall be obtained the next business day. A. Building Permits. New buildings or structures, including accessory structures, additions, alterations, any structural work, signs, fences, pools, driveways etc. B. Electrical. Any construction, replacement or expansion of electrical lines, new or replacement services. C. Heating Ventilation/Air Conditioning (HVAC). Any new HVAC work, AC unit replacement or extension of services. D. Plumbing. Any new lines, replacement of existing lines including services from the meter or any portion thereof. E. Roofing. Any new roofing or replacement of existing roofs. F. Land Disturbance. Any grading or excavating of land which disturbs more than 2500 square feet. All land disturbance permits shall include an erosion control plan. Sloped banks shall not exceed a 2 to 1 ratio (2 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical). An ADEM NPDES permit shall be required on any disturbance over 1 acre. G. Demolition. Any demolition of structures larger than 1,000 square feet but less than 4,000 square feet. Structures larger than 4,000 square feet shall comply with the city’s Demolition Ordinance 2014-09. Permits shall not be required for any cosmetic work including painting, siding, cabinetry or replacement of existing appliances and fixtures provided that no new services (electrical, gas or plumbing) are required. 1.2 Review of Building Permit Applications. It shall be unlawful for the Zoning Administrator of the City to approve any plans or issue a building permit for any excavation or construction until he has inspected such plans in detail and found them in conformity with this Ordinance. However, within the City limits there exist large tracts of land that are not part of a planned residential subdivision. The Zoning Administrator shall be allowed to make exceptions to these zoning requirements on said tracts containing two acres or more provided that the intent of this ordinance is met. 9  . Said plan shall include:  A. The boundary and dimensions of the lot or parcel. B. The shape, size, use, and location of all buildings, signs, or other structures to be erected, altered or moved and of any buildings or other structures already on the lot, both above and below existing grade. C. The existing and proposed facilities for the disposal of storm water drainage. D. The setback and side lines of buildings on adjoining lots and such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for determining conformance with the provisions of this Ordinance. E. Written certification from the appropriate authority regarding the adequacy of sanitary sewage disposal for the site. F. Every application for the use of land under and by virtue of the provisions of this Ordinance shall include therewith a map showing the location of necessary fire hydrants with adequate fire flow. In addition thereto, the applicant shall submit a written agreement between the applicant and the appropriate water authority, which agreement shall specify that the applicant shall assume the responsibility for purchasing and having installed such fire hydrants as required by the appropriate fire department, and that the applicant shall agree to pay the annual rental therefore, and such other charges that may be levied by the water authority for a period of three (3) years from the date of their installation. Such agreement shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for his and the fire department’s approval and shall be in full force and effect at the time of the issuance of any building permit provided for there under. G. In the event such application requests such a permit for the construction of a theater, hotel, state building, private school building or a commercially structured building containing fifteen (15) or more rooms, the applicant shall furnish to the Zoning Administrator a written certification from the applicant’s architect affirming that the plans have been approved by the Building Commission of the State of Alabama. 10 1.21. Approval of Building Permit Applications. If the proposed excavation, construction, moving, or alteration as set forth in the application, are in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance and other applicable regulations, the Zoning Administrator of the City shall issue a building permit accordingly. 1.22. Denial of Building Permit Application. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing that his or her building permit has been denied and said notification shall state the reasons for denial. 1.3. Certificate of Occupancy. No land or building or other structure or part thereof hereafter erected, moved or altered in its use shall be used or occupied, including an increase in the number of dwellings, until the Zoning Administrator of the City shall have issued a Certificate of Occupancy. Within three (3) days after the owner or his agent has notified the Zoning Administrator of the City that a building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator of the City to make a final inspection thereof, to issue a Certificate of Occupancy if the building or premises are found to conform with the provisions of this Ordinance and other applicable regulations or, if such certificate is refused, to notify such applicant in writing of the refusal and the cause or causes therefore. 1.4. Expiration of Building Permit. Any permit under which no construction work has been done above the foundation wall or other foundation support within six (6) months from the date of issuance shall expire by limitation, but shall upon reapplication be renewable, subject, however, to the provisions of all ordinances in force at the time of said renewal. In no event shall any permit be renewed more than one time. 1.5. Unlawful Structure. Any uses of land or dwellings or construction or alteration of buildings, or structures erected, altered, razed or converted in violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be a nuisance per se. The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to apply to a court of equity to abate the nuisance created by such unlawful use of structure. Whenever the Zoning Administrator has declared a structure to be not conforming with the provisions of this Ordinance, the owner or occupant shall, within seventy two (72) hours from the issuance of a notice from the Zoning Administrator to vacate such premises, accomplish such vacation of such structure or premises which shall not again be used or occupied until such structure or premised has been adapted to conform to the provisions of this Ordinance. 1.6. Fees. Where work for which a permit is required by this Ordinance is started or proceeded with prior to obtaining a permit, the building permit fee shall be fifty (50) dollars or doubled, whichever is greater but the payment of such double fee shall not relieve any person from having to fully comply with the requirements of this Ordinance in the execution of the work or from any other penalties prescribed in this Ordinance. 1.7. Penalties. Any person, firm, corporation, or other organization which violates any provision of this Ordinance shall be fined upon conviction not less than fifty (50) dollars nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and cost of court for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. 11 1.8. Remedies. In case any building or other structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this Ordinance, the Zoning Administrator of the City or any other appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be damaged or caused hardship by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to stay or prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to correct or abate such violation or to prevent occupancy of such building, structure or land. 1.9. City Not Subject to Ordinance. Any provision of the Ordinance to the contrary notwithstanding the City in exercising any governmental function, power, or authority, shall not be subject to the provisions of this Ordinance or in anywise limited thereby in the exercise of such governmental function, power of authority. Section 2.0. Zoning Amendments. A proposed change of the zoning district boundaries or of the regulations as they pertain to a piece of property may be initiated by the City or at the request of the owner or owners of the property to be rezoned or their authorized agents. 2.1. When a rezoning request if made by a petition, the following procedure shall be followed:  A. The applicant shall submit a complete zoning amendment application to the Planning Department, at least three (3) days prior to a regularly scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission meeting, containing as a minimum, the following information:  1. A one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee to defray the cost of processing the application. 2. A vicinity map, drawn to scale, showing the exact location of the subject property in relation to the vicinity where it is located. 3. A site development plan, drawn to a scale no larger than one inch equals 50 feet, which shows the following:  a. Property lines, right-of-way and easements b. Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed improvements c. Points of ingress and egress to the property d. Direction of storm water flow and method of handling same  4. A written statement indicating:  12  a. Reason for the rezoning request b. Expected traffic volumes to be generated by the proposal, if applicable c. Availability of required utilities d. Relationship of the proposed rezoning to the land use pattern of the vicinity e. Legal description of proposed rezoning site  5. Landscaping Plan, if applicable. B. Upon receipt of an application which complies with the requirements of Subsection 2.1, the Planning Clerk shall present the application to the Planning and Zoning Commission at their next regularly scheduled meeting. Upon receipt of said application by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Commission shall schedule a public hearing on the application at their next regularly scheduled meeting. C. A minimum of fourteen (14) days prior to the Planning and Zoning Commission public hearing, the Planning Clerk shall mail notification to all owners of adjacent property as their names appear on the plats of the Tax Assessor. The notice shall state:  1. Location of the rezoning request (by mailing address and legal description). 2. The nature of the rezoning request (indicating the current zoning of the site and the proposed zoning classification). 3. The time, date and location of the Planning and Zoning Commission hearing at which the rezoning request is to be considered, and stating further that all persons who desire shall have an opportunity of being heard in opposition to such ordinance. D. Upon receipt of a positive recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission, the City Clerk shall, in accord with the Code of Alabama, schedule and advertise the proposed amendment for a public hearing before the City Council. Upon receipt of no recommendation or a negative recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission, the City Council hearing process must be initiated by a written request of the applicant. E. When the City Council denies a rezoning request, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall not reconsider the same request for a period of six (6) months. Each time the City considers a zoning request, the one hundred dollar ($100.00) administrative fee must be paid. 2.2. Initiation of Zoning Amendments by the City. The Planning and Zoning Commission  13 and/or the City Council, may, in accordance with the Code of Alabama, initiate public hearings for the consideration of any proposed amendment to the provisions of this Ordinance and/or the Zoning Map. Section 3.0 Board of Zoning Adjustment. The Board of Adjustments shall have only those powers specifically enumerated in Section 11-52-80, Code of Alabama, 1975; which are:  A. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of this Article or of any ordinance adopted pursuant thereto;  B. To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the ordinance upon which such board is required to pass under such ordinance; and  C. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owning to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done. 3.1. Administrative Appeal. Appeals to the Board of Adjustments concerning interpretation or administration of this Ordinance may be taken by any person aggrieved by any decision of the Building Official. Such appeals shall be taken within 30 days of the administrative decision which is the subject of the appeal. The Building Official shall forthwith transmit to the Board, all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. A. The applicant shall submit a complete administrative appeal application along with a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee to defray the cost of processing to the Planning Clerk, at least fourteen (14) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment meeting at which the appeal is to be considered. B. A minimum of seven (7) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment meeting at which the appeal is initially considered, the Planning Clerk shall mail notification to all owners of adjacent property as their names appear on the plats of the Tax Assessor. The notice shall state: 1. Location of the property which is the subject of the appeal (by mailing address and legal description). 2. The nature of the administrative appeal. 3. The time, date and location of the Board of Adjustment meeting at which the administrative appeal is to be considered. C. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall schedule a hearing on the appeal at the first regularly scheduled meeting after compliance with notice provisions as set forth herein. 14 3.2. Special Exception Uses. Requests for special exception uses as stipulated within the zoning district regulations are permitted only after approval by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. When a Special Exception request is received by the City, the following procedure shall be followed:  A. The applicant shall submit a complete Special Exception application to the Planning Clerk, at least eighteen (18) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment meeting at which the request is to be considered, containing as a minimum, the following information: 1. A non-refundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to defray the cost of processing the application. 2. A vicinity map, drawn to scale, showing the exact location of the subject property in relation to the vicinity in which it is located. 3. A site development plan, drawn to a scale no larger than one inch equals 50 feet, which shows the following: a. Property lines, right-of-way and easements b. Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed improvements, buildings and structures c. Exterior lighting and signs d. Buffers and fences e. Outside storage areas f. Parking and loading areas g. Points of ingress and egress to the property h. Direction of storm water flow and method of handling same  4. A written statement indicating: a. Expected traffic volumes to be generated by the proposal b. Availability of required utilities c. Relationship of the proposed special exception to the land use pattern of the vicinity d. Legal description of proposed special exception  5. Landscaping Plan, if applicable. B. A minimum of fourteen (14) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment meeting at which the Special Exception request is initially considered, the Planning Clerk shall mail notification to all owners of adjacent property as their names appear on the plats of the Tax Assessor. The notice shall state: 1. Location of the Special Exception request (by mailing address and legal description). 2. The nature of the Special Exception request (indicating the current zoning of the site and the proposed use). 3. The time, date and location of the Board of Adjustments meeting at which the Special Exception request is to be considered. C. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall schedule a hearing on the application at the first regularly scheduled meeting after compliance with notice  15 provisions as set forth herein. 3.3. Variances. A variance to the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance must be approved by the Board of Adjustment at a public hearing as stipulated herein. A. The applicant shall submit a complete variance application to the Planning Clerk at least fourteen (14) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment meeting at which the request is to be considered containing as a minimum, the following information: 1. A fifty dollar ($50.00) fee to defray the cost of processing the application. 2. A vicinity map, drawn to scale, showing the exact location of the subject property in relation to the vicinity in which it is located 3. A site development plan, drawn to a scale no larger than one inch equals 50 feet, which shows the following: a. Property lines, right-of-way and easements b. The location, dimensions, and building setbacks for all existing and proposed buildings and structures on the site and adjacent to the site c. All dimensions of the building, structure and area which is the subject of the variance request 4. Landscaping Plan, if applicable    B. A minimum of seven (7) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment meeting at which the variance is initially considered, the Planning Clerk shall mail notification to all owners of adjacent property as their names appear on the plats of the Tax Assessor. The notice shall state:  1. Location of the variance (by mailing address and legal description). 2. The nature of the variance 3. The time, date and location of the Board of Adjustment meeting at which the variance is to be considered. C. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall schedule a hearing on the application at the first regularly scheduled meeting after compliance with notice provisions as set forth herein. 3.4. Rules of Procedure. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules of procedure, which govern the application process, conduct of meetings and hearings, election of officers and other subjects deemed appropriate by the Board. 3.5. Appeals From a Decision of the Board. Any party aggrieved by any final judgement or decision of the Board of Adjustment may within 15 days thereafter appeal therefrom to the Circuit Court by filing with such Board a written notice of appeal specifying the judgement or decision from which the appeal is taken. An appellant shall be required to pay a filing fee in Circuit Court at the time that a Notice of Appeal is filed with the Court. The Board shall cause a transcript of the proceedings in the case to be certified to the Court to which the appeal is taken and the case in such Court shall be tried de novo. Said transcript shall consist of the minutes of the proceeding, together with true and correct  16 copies of all exhibits, documents or other evidence presented for consideration by the Board. ARTICLE IV. DEFINITIONS  For the purpose of this Ordinance certain terms used herein are herewith defined. When not consistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, word in the singular include the plural number and words in the plural include the singular number. The word “shall” is mandatory and not directory. Accessory Structure: A structure, which is normally incidental to, subordinate to and related exclusively to the principal use of the premises. Accessory Use: A use, which is normally incidental to, subordinate to and related exclusively to support of the principal use of the premises. Antenna: Any exterior apparatus designed to transmit and/or receive electromagnetic waves. Alley: A public thoroughfare or way, which affords a secondary means of access to abutting property. Alter and alteration: Any change or modification in construction or occupancy of a building or premises. Alternative Support Structure: A building or structure other than a tower, which is used to support an antenna(s), such as a steeple, power pole, water tank, sign, clock tower, light pole and other similar structures. Assisted Living Facility: A licensed facility in which room, board, meals, laundry, and assistance with personal care and other services are provided for not less than twenty-four hours in any week to a minimum of two ambulatory adults not related by blood or marriage to the owner and/or administrator. Basement: That portion of a building which is partly or wholly below grade but so located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the floor is greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling. A basement shall not be counted as a story for purposes of height restrictions. Bed and Breakfast: A single family, owner occupied dwelling, wherein a fee is charged to provide more than two bedrooms as overnight accommodations for guests and where meals may be served to overnight guests, but meals are not served to the non-resident general public. Block: All land fronting on one side of a street between the nearest intersecting streets, roads, railroad right-of-way and waterways, meeting or crossing the aforesaid street and bounding such land. Buffer: An area planted with live vegetation as required by this Ordinance, intended to  17 separate incompatible land uses and thereby mitigate the effects of the incompatibility. Building: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels; and when supported by division walls from the ground up without ingress and egress provided between such divisions or suitable openings, each portion of such building so divided shall be deemed a separate building. Building Area: That portion of a lot or parcel covered by a building. Building Face or Wall: All window and wall area of a building in one plane or elevation. Building Height: The vertical distance from the average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building of the highest point on the roof for flat roofs, to the decked line for mansard roofs, and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip and gambrel roofs. Building Setback Line: Lines, which parallel property lines and determine the location of the building setback with respect to the street and other property lines. Building, Principal: A permanent building in which is conducted or is intended to be conducted the principle use of the lot on which said building is located. The principle building shall be a permanent building which has a roof supported by columns or walls, with walls constructed of wood, metal, glass, brick or masonry materials, which completely enclose the principle building area. A principle building shall not be a mobile building. Carport: A structure used to offer limited protection to vehicles, primarily cars and recreational vehicles. Carports typically have no sides but may have up to two, they can either be attached or free standing. Concealment Structure: A structure, which supports and completely conceals an antenna(s), such as steeple, sign, man-made tree, clock tower and similar applications. Cul-de-sac: A circular terminus of a dead-end street having a minimum right-of-way radius of fifty (50) feet. Day Care Center: Any childcare facility, which is not located in an owner occupied dwelling, where care is provided for children during the day for a fee, but where children are not accommodated overnight. The term does not include programs operated by a church when located on the same premises as the sanctuary, or programs operated within a public school. Day Care Home: Any childcare facility operated in an owner occupied dwelling, where care is provided for children during the day for a fee, but where children are not accommodated overnight. Drive-in Theater: A theater designed for the patron to view the performance while being seated in a vehicle. 18  Dwelling: Any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy. Dwelling, Multiple: A building situated on one lot or parcel which contains more than two dwelling units. Dwelling, Single Family: A dwelling unit, which is not attached to any other dwelling by any means. Dwelling, Two Family: A building situated on one lot or parcel, which contains two dwelling units. Dwelling Unit: One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single family maintaining a household. Dwelling, Townhouse: Two (2) or more dwelling units, attached by at least twenty (20) feet of continuous common side wall(s), each unit of which is located on an individual lot and designed to be occupied and owned by one (1) family. Erect: Construct, including build, reconstruction, alternation, moved upon or any similar physical operations on the premises. Excavation, earthwork, fill, drainage work, utilities installations and other work as it relates to the construction or use of a building or structure shall be considered within the meaning of erect. Family: One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit, all but two (2) of whom are related to each other by birth, adoption or marriage. Notwithstanding the definition in the preceding paragraph, a family shall be deemed to include up to three (3) unrelated persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single, non-profit housekeeping unit, if any one or more of said three (3) unrelated occupants is handicapped as defined in Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 as amended by the “Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988” and the “Alabama Fair Housing Law”, Code of Alabama 24-8-1, et seq. such unrelated individual(s) shall have the right to occupy a dwelling unit in the same manner and to the same extent as any family unit as defined in the first paragraph of this definition. Fence: A structure intended for a barrier or enclosure. First Floor: The term “first floor” shall mean the lowest floor surface of that portion of a structure defined as a story  Floor Area: The gross floor area, including basement, of any structure. Gasoline Service Station: Any building, structure or land at which the sale of combustible and flammable fuels is the principle use. 19  Group Home: A dwelling, which is occupied by persons who collectively do not comply the definition of family. Home Occupation: A use, conducted entirely within an enclosed, detached, single family residential dwelling, which occupies less than 25 percent of the gross floor area of the dwelling, employs only the inhabitants of the dwelling, is clearly incidental and secondary to residential occupancy and does not change the character of the dwelling. Hospital: A public or proprietary institution providing medical diagnosis, treatment, or other care of human ailments, operating under license by the Alabama State Health Department, and which, unless otherwise specified, shall be deemed to include institutions primarily for treatment of contagious diseases and the insane or feeble minded but not including nursing homes. Hotel: A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the general public, where the rooms are accessed from the interior of the building, and providing additional services such as dining, meeting rooms and recreation facilities. Independent Living Facility: Multi-family dwellings, restricted to occupancy by persons 62 years and older, which may provide common facilities and services, but which are not defined as an Assisted Living Facility. Industrial Park: A tract of industrial land subdivided into at least two (2) parcels each of which have frontage on a public street. Inn: An establishment which is located in a building which was originally designed and used as a single family dwelling, wherein a fee is charged to provide overnight accommodations for guests. Junk: Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material or debris, whether or not stored or used in conjunction with dismantling, processing, salvage, storage, baling, disposal or other use or disposition; including but not limited to: vehicles, tires, vehicle parts, equipment, paper, rags, metal, glass, building materials, household appliances, brush, wood and lumber. Junk Yard: Any area, lot, land, parcel, building or structure, or portion thereof, used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale or abandonment of junk. Land Area: Property, which is not water surface area. Loading Space: A space having a minimum dimension of twelve by thirty-five (12x35) feet and a vertical clearance of at least fourteen (14) feet within the main building or on the same lot, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks. Lot: A parcel of land intended for transfer of ownership or for building development, which shall be comprised of land area or a combination of land area and water surface area which complies with the area and dimensional regulations of the zoning district in  20 which it is located. Each lot shall be comprised of land area in an amount equal to or greater that the minimum lot area required in the zoning district in which it is located. Said land area shall be contiguous and have principle frontage upon a public street. Lot-corner: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection. Lot Line: The lines bounding a lot as defined herein. Lot Line-front: In the case of a lot line abutting upon one street, the front line is the line separating such lot from such a street. On corner lots and through lots, the front lot line shall be considered as parallel to the streets upon which the lot is located. Lot Line-rear: The rear lot line is that opposite the front line, except in the case of a through lot. In case of a lot terminating at a point at the rear of the lot, or having a rear lot line less than ten (10) feet long, the rear lot line shall be considered a line parallel to the front lot line having a length not less than ten (10) feet long. Lot Line-side: Any lot line other than front lot line or rear lot line. Lot-of-record: A legally platted lot shown on the records in the Office of the Judge of Probate. Lot-through: A lot which abuts two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets. Lot Width: The width of the lot measured at the minimum required building setback line. Manufactured Home: A structure defined by and constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. The definition at the date of adoption of this Ordinance is as follows:  A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width and forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation, when connected with required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all of the requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary and complies with the standards established under this title. Mobile Building: A building used for non- residential purposes, which is transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be occupied and used with or without a permanent foundation. Mobile Home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation, and which does not meet the standards required of a Manufactured Home  21 herein. Mobile Home or Manufactured Home Park: A lot or parcel which contains more than one mobile home or manufactured home used as living quarters, or a lot or parcel containing more than one space designed or intended for parking of mobile homes or manufactured homes, to be used as living quarters. Modular Home: A single-family dwelling, factory fabricated and transportable as a building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for residential purposes and which bears a seal of compliance with the regulations of the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission. Motel: A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the general public where most of the rooms have separate and direct access to the outside, and which may provide additional services such as dining, meeting rooms and recreation. Nonconforming Use: The use of any building, structure or land which was lawful at the time of the passage of this Ordinance, or amendment thereto but which use does not conform, after the passage of this Ordinance or amendment thereto, with the use regulations of the district in which it is located. Nursing Home: A licensed facility providing inpatient care for convalescents or other persons not acutely ill and not in need of acute general hospital care, but do require skilled nursing care. Office: Space or rooms for professional, administrative, clerical and similar uses. Parking Area: Space, which is surfaced by either bituminous pavement or concrete, used or intended to be used exclusively for the off-street parking of vehicles. Parking Space: An area surfaced by either bituminous pavement or concrete, which are at least nine (9) feet wide and twenty (20) feet long. Premises: A lot or parcel, together with all buildings and structures existing thereon; except in the case of leased space in a multiple tenant building, the premises shall be the subject leased space. Public Utility: Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or board, duly authorized by the Alabama Public Service Commission to provide electricity, gas, steam, telephone, telegraph, transportation, water or sewer service to the general public. Restaurant: An establishment where food is cooked, patrons dine on or off the premises and where there is no drive-up or walk-up window service or service to customers in their vehicles. Restaurant, Drive-up: An establishment where food is cooked or prepared, and where there is drive-up or walk-up window service, or service to customers in their vehicles. 22  Roofline: The top edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever forms the top line of the building silhouette. Self-Service Storage, Limited Access: A self-service storage facility with limited access points from the exterior of the building to interior halls that provide the only access to individual storage units. Self-Service Storage, Multi-Access: A self- service storage facility with access points from the exterior of the building to individual storage units. Shopping Center: Two (2) or more retail or service establishments located in one (1) building or a group of architecturally unified buildings; said buildings being under one (1) ownership or management, with selected tenants, and having an integrated parking area. Story: That part of a building, except a mezzanine as defined herein, included between the surface of one floor and the surface of the next floor, or if there is no floor above, then the ceiling next above. A story thus defined shall not be counted as a story when more than fifty (50) percent, by cubic content, is below the height level of the adjourning ground. Story-Half: A half story is a story situated within a sloping roof, the floor area of which, at a height of five (5) feet above the floor, does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area in the story directly below it and the height above at least two hundred (200) square feet of floor space its seven (7) feet six (6) inches. A half story containing independent apartment or living quarters shall be counted as a full story. Street: A public thoroughfare which affords a principal means of access to abutting property and which has been accepted by the City as a public street. Structure: Any construction or production of a piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. Structure, Height: Except for buildings, the height of a structure shall be measured from the average ground elevation at the bottom of the structure to the highest point of the structure. Telecommunications Facility: A facility owned or operated by a public utility or a business that transmits and/or received electromagnetic waves. It included antennas, microwave dishes, horns and other types of equipment for the transmission or receipt of such signals, telecommunications towers or alternative supporting structures, equipment, buildings, cabinets, parking area and all other accessory structures and uses. Tourist Home: A single family, owner occupied dwelling, wherein a fee is charged to provide not more than two bedrooms as overnight accommodations for gusts and where meals may be served to overnight guests, but meals are not served to the non-resident general public. 23  Tower: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antenna, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers and similar towers. Use: A use is the purpose for which land or buildings and structures thereon are designed, arranged or intended to be used, occupied or maintained. Water Surface Area: Property within lakes, ponds, rivers and year-round streams. Water surface area shall not include property within storm drainage structures, drainage ways which periodically contain water or swimming pools and other structures which contain water. Wholesale Establishment: Any establishment which exclusively sells goods in large quantities, as for resale by a retailer. Yard: An open space that lies between the principal or accessory building(s) and the nearest lot line. Such yard is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward except as may be specifically provided in this Ordinance. Yard-Front: A yard, or yards in the case of a corner lot or through lot, extending across the full width or depth of the lot between the front of the principle building and the closest lot line; and between the principle building and any public street right-of-way. Yard-Rear: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear lot line and the principle building. Yard-Side: A yard between the side of the lot and the nearest line of the principle building and extending from the front yard to the rear yard, or, in the absence of either of such yards, to the front or rear lot line, as the case may be, except that on a corner lot the side yard adjacent to a street shall extend the full depth of the lot. ARTICLE V. GENERAL REGULATIONS Section 1.0. General Use Requirements. The following general regulations pertain to the administration, enforcement of and compliance with this Ordinance. 1.1. Application of this Ordinance. No structure shall be constructed, erected, placed or maintained and no land use commenced or continued within the City except as specially or by necessary implication authorized by this Ordinance. In addition, no excavation for foundations, nor any erection, or structural alteration of any structure shall be undertaken prior to appropriate permits having been approved and issued by the Zoning Administrator. 24 1.2. Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance. A. No land may be used except for a use permitted in the district in which it is located. B. No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, nor shall any building be used except for a use permitted in the district in which the building is located. C. No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations and height limit if the district in which the building is located. D. The minimum building lines, lot area, parking spaces, buffers and other criteria required by this Ordinance for each and every building existing at the time of the passage of this Ordinance or for any building hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as a required building, parking or open space for any other building, nor shall any lot area be reduced below the requirements of this Ordinance. E. Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on one lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one principal building and one principal use on one lot; except in the case of multi-family dwellings, self-storage facilities, churches, schools and similar institutional campuses. Accessory structures shall not include living quarters, except for resident managers at self-storage facilities. F. No accessory structure shall be constructed or moved upon a lot more than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of construction of the principal building. G. Building materials or temporary structures for construction purposes shall not be placed or stored on any lot or parcel before appropriate building permits have been approved and issued by the Zoning Administrator. 1.3. Joint Occupancy. No structure shall be erected, structurally altered for, or used as a single-family or two-family dwelling simultaneously with any other use. 1.4. Public Utilities. Public utility structures including: poles, wires, cross arms, transformers attached to poles, guy wires, insulators, conduits and other facilities necessary for the transmission or distribution of electric power or to provide telephone or telegraph service, and pipelines, vents, valves, hydrants, regulators, meters and other facilities necessary for the transmission or distribution of gas, oil, water or other utilities, may be constructed, erected, repaired, maintained or replaced in any zoning district. This is not construed to include buildings, electric sub-stations nor telecommunications facilities as defined by this Ordinance. Section 2.0. Nonconforming uses of land and buildings. 25 Within the districts established by this Ordinance or amendments that may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before the Ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this Ordinance or future amendment. It is the intent of this Ordinance to permit these non-conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this Ordinance that non-conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. 2.1. Continuance. A lawful non-conforming use existing at the effective date of the Ordinance may be continued, except as hereafter provided, although such use does not conform to the provisions of this Ordinance. 2.2. Restoration to safe condition. Nothing in the Ordinance shall prevent the restoration of any building or structure to a safe or sanitary condition when required by the proper authorities. 2.3. Restoration after damages. A non-conforming building or structure which has been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than fifty (50) percent of its current replacement value at the time of such damage shall not be rebuilt or restored except in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. If a non-conforming building is damaged less than fifty (50) percent of its current replacement value it may be rebuilt or restored and used as before the damage, provided that such rebuilding or restoring is completed within twelve (12) months of the date of such damage. 2.4. Abandonment. A non-conforming use, which has been discontinued for a continuous period of one (1) year shall not be re-established and any future use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. 2.5. Change of use. A non-conforming use shall not be changed to another non- conforming use. A non-conforming use, which is changed to a conforming use shall not be permitted to revert to a non-conforming use. 2.6. Structures conforming to district regulations but not other regulations. A structure or building conforming to the use regulations of a district, but not conforming to other provisions of this Ordinance, may be enlarged or altered, provided, that such enlargement or alteration conforms to the provisions of this Ordinance. 2.7. Non-conforming Mobile & Manufactured Homes. When a non-conforming mobile home or manufactured home is moved from its site, damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than 50 (50) percent of its current replacement value at the time of such damage, use of the subject property shall conform in all respects to the provisions of this Ordinance. When a non-conforming mobile home or manufactured home is vacant for three (3) consecutive months, or nine (9) months in any two (2) year period, it shall be removed from the premises. 26 Section 3.0 Annexed Property. Prior to issuance of a building permit for property which was annexed into the City of Valley, the property shall be zoned in accordance with Article III, Section 2.1 of this Ordinance. Section 4.0. Abandoned right-of-way. Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated or abandoned by official action of the City of Valley, the zoning district adjourning each side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of same and all area included therein shall then be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended district. Section 5.0 Access to Public Streets       A. A point of access, i.e., a drive or other opening for vehicles onto a street,      shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in width, but if the street is a major       street and freeways, or arterial street, the width shall not exceed fifty (50)       feet. B. There shall be no more than two points of access to any one public street on       a lot of any width, unless required by the Board of Adjustments to provide       adequate access to lots with more than four hundred (400) feet of       continuous street frontage. Lots less than one hundred (100) feet in width       shall have no more than one access to any one public street. C.  No point of access shall be allowed within fifty (50) feet of the right-of-       way of any public street intersection. However, a lesser distance may be      recommended for approval to the Board of Adjustments by the Zoning       Administrator, where conditions at the intersection or the constraints of the       property may so warrant, and where such adjustment shall not compromise       traffic safety or contribute to traffic congestion. D.  The area existing between the street and an interior parking space or       driveway parallel to the street shall have a curb at least six (6) inches in       height and six (6) inches in width separating the parking area and drive from       the public right-of- way, to prevent encroachment of vehicles onto the right-       of-way area. E.  No curbs on city streets or rights–of-way shall be cut or altered without      written approval of the Zoning Administrator. All points of access to a public       street shall require written approval of the Zoning Administrator. Section 6.0. Area modification for lots of record. Where a lot of record at the time of the effective date of this Ordinance has less area or  27 less width than herein required for the district in which it is located, said lot may nonetheless be used as a building site upon approval by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. When two or more nonconforming lots exist together, with contiguous frontage and under single ownership, said lots shall be re surveyed to conform as closely as possible to the provisions of this Ordinance. Section 7.0. General yard and building setback modifications. See Exhibit “A” pg. 111- Area of Modification for Typical Lots  A. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky unobstructed by any structure or part thereof and unoccupied for storage, servicing or similar uses except as provided herein. B. More than one multiple dwelling or institutional building may be located upon a lot or tract, but such buildings shall not encroach upon the front, side and rear yards required by the district regulations. C. Where a building is to be erected on a lot or parcel of land that is within one hundred (100) feet of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard shall be a line drawn between the closest front corners of the adjacent buildings. D. Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is within one hundred (100) feet of an existing building on one side only, such building may be erected as close to the street as the existing adjacent building. E. Through lots shall provide the required front yard on both sides. F. Corner lots shall provide a front yard one each street side. Section 8.0. Height modifications. Chimneys, fire towers, steeples, and public utility water storage tanks, where permitted, may be erected to any height not in conflict with existing or hereafter adopted ordinances of the City of Valley. Section 9.0. Eaves, porches, decks and accessory structures. A. Sills or ornamental features of a structure shall not project more than six (6) inches into any yard. B. Cornices or eaves shall not project more than twenty-four (24) inches into any required yard. C. In all residential districts, uncovered patios, terraces, walkways, decks and porches, which do not extend more than three (3) feet above grade, may project into a required yard, provided such structures shall not be located  28 closer than twenty (20) feet from the rear property line nor six (6) feet from either side property line. D. In all residential districts, uncovered balconies, decks or fire escapes, which extend more than three (3) feet above grade, may project into a required rear or side yard provided such structures shall not be located closer than twenty (20) feet from the rear property line nor six (6) feet from either side property line. E. Accessory buildings and structures are permitted only in a rear yard and shall have a cumulative gross floor area which is less than 50% of the dwelling, excluding pools, patios and decks. Minimum building setback for accessory buildings and structures shall be five (5) feet from property lines and accessory buildings shall be a minimum of (10) feet from the dwelling. Accessory structures shall not be taller than the height of the primary structure. F.  Detached Carports shall be permitted in the side or rear yard, subject to setbacks. G.  Prohibited accessory structures: portable carports made from textile/ vinyl, shipping containers, tractor trailers, or structures not intended for residential purposes. ARTICLE VI. ZONING DISTRICTS  See Exhibit “B” pg. 112 – Quick Guide to Residential Zoning Districts Section 1.0. FAR Forestry-Agricultural-Recreation District  1.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the FAR, Forestry- Agricultural-Recreation District. 1.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of the Forestry-Agricultural-Recreation District is to provide for the preservation of prime agricultural / forestry lands; to provide for the preservation of natural and scenic areas needed for outdoor recreation, open space, water aquifer recharge, essential drainage areas, and to provide for protection of such lands from premature or incompatible development. 1.3. Permitted Uses:  General and specialized farming, forestry, and agricultural uses, except commercial  29 animal feed lots and poultry farms  Roadside stands for the sale of produce  Conservation areas and structures for the development, protection, preservation, and conservation of open space, water sheds, water, soil, forest and wildlife resources. Bed and Breakfast Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Single family dwellings and manufactured homes Tourist home  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses  1.4. Special Exception Uses:  Group home Home Occupation Inn Plant nurseries and greenhouses Resorts, campgrounds, riding academies and stables Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII  Utility uses as: Electric cub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned special exception uses  1.5. Prohibited Uses: Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use  1.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  15,000 square feet  Minimum Lot Width Corner lot Interior lot  200 feet 100 feet  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  30  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  45 feet 40 feet 20 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- way)   1.7. Requirements for Single Family Dwellings, and Manufactured Homes:  A. A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a length not to exceed four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and the width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum width not less than twenty-four (24) feet. This measurement shall only include the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, carports, decks or storage areas. B. All dwellings shall have a permanent masonry underpinned foundation which extends from the ground to the bottom of the exterior wall and surrounds the entire dwelling, the underpinned foundation being either brick, or masonry painted materials painted the same color as the building. C. Each manufactured home shall be blocked and anchored in compliance with applicable law, rule or regulation. D. Axles, trailer tongues, wheels, tires, taillights and license plates shall be removed or hidden from view. E. All dwellings shall have permanent steps, porches, or decks on all outside doorways, the supports for which shall be permanently anchored in the ground. F. All dwellings shall have at least a 3:12 roof pitch and the roof shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition shingles, fiberglass or metal tiles. G. The applicant shall submit proof that there are no restrictive covenants preventing the placement of a manufactured home on the subject property. H. Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures Code. 1.8. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 31  1.9. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. Section 2.0. R-R Rural Residential District  2.1 Generally: The regulations set forth in the Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-R Rural Residential District. 2.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of the Rural Residential District is to provide for the preservation of prime lands suitable for residential development and act as a buffer between urban and rural development. 2.3. Permitted Uses:  General and specialized agriculture, farming and forestry uses except feed lots and poultry productions. Roadside stands for the sale of produce grown on the property and sold by the owner of the property. Conservation areas and structures built for the conservation, preservation and protection of open space, water, sheds, soils, forests and wildlife resources. Single-family dwellings  Bed and Breakfast Tourist Home  Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Accessory structures for uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses. 2.4. Special Exception Uses  Group home    Home Occupation      Inn Plant nurseries and greenhouses Resorts, campgrounds, riding academies and stables Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations. 32  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned special exception uses  2.5. Prohibited Uses:   Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use  2.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements:  A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a length not to exceed four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and the width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum width not less than twenty-four (24) feet. This measurement shall only include the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, carports, decks or storage areas. AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  One acre  Minimum Lot Width Corner lot Interior lot  200 feet 100 feet  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  45 feet 40 feet 20 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- way)   2.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR or residential district. 2.8. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations,    Article IX B. Buffers and Landscaping Regulations, Article X   33 Section 3.0. R-1 Low Density Residential District  3.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-1 Low Density Residential District  3.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide a quality living environment through the provision of land for low density residential uses consisting of single-family dwellings and accessory uses. 3.3 Permitted Uses:  Single-family dwellings  Municipal fire, police and emergency medical stations  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses. 3.4. Special Exception Uses:  Bed and Breakfast Group Home Home Occupation Tourist Home  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations  Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special exception uses. 3.5. Prohibited Uses:  Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes Multi-family dwellings; two-family dwellings and townhouses  Commercial, institution and industrial uses which are specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use  3.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements:  A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have e length not to  34 exceed four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and the width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum width not less than twenty four (24) feet. This measurement shall only include the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, carports, decks or storage area. AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  15,000 square feet  Minimum Lot Width Corner lot Interior lot  100 feet 100 feet  Maximum Building Height 35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  35 feet 40 feet 10 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- way)  3.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 3.8. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffer and Landscaping Regulations, Article X. Section 4.0 R-2 Medium Density Residential District  4.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-2 Medium Density residential District. 4.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide a quality living environment through the provision of land for medium density residential and accessory uses. 4.3. Permitted Uses:  Single-family dwellings  35 Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses. 4.4 Special Exception Uses:  Bed and Breakfast Group Home Home Occupation Tourist Home  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations  Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special exception uses. 4.5. Prohibited Uses:  Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes Duplexes and townhouses Multi-family Dwellings  Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use  4.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a length not to exceed four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and the width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum width not less than twenty four (24) feet. This measurement shall only include the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, carports, decks and storage areas. AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  12,000 square feet  Minimum Lot Width Corner lot Interior lot  90 feet 75 feet  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  36  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  35 feet 35 feet 10 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- way)  Maximum Building Area of Lot  35 Percent   4.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut a FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 4.8. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscaping Regulations, Article X. Section 5.0 R-3 Medium Density Residential District  5.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-3 Medium Density Residential District. 5.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to promote a quality living environment through the provision of land for medium density residential and accessory uses. 5.3. Permitted Uses:  Single-family dwellings Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses. 5.4. Special Exception Uses:  Bed and Breakfast Group Homes Home Occupations Tourist Homes   37 Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations  Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special exception uses:  5.5 Prohibited Uses:  Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes Duplexes and Townhouses Multi-family dwellings  Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use  5.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a length not to exceed four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and the width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum width not less than twenty four (24) feet. This measurement shall only include the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, carports, decks or storage areas. AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  9,000 square feet  Minimum Lot Width Corner lot Interior lot  75 feet 60 feet  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  30 feet 35 feet 8 feet, and 35 feet from a public street right- of-way  Maximum Building Area of Lot  35 Percent  5.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties  38 where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 5.8 Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. Section 6.0 R-4 Medium Density Residential District  6.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-4 Medium Density Residential District. 6.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to promote a quality living environment through the provision of land for a variety of medium density housing including single family dwellings, manufactured homes and two-family dwellings  6.3. Permitted Uses:  Single Family Dwellings Manufactured Homes Two-family Dwellings (Duplexes) Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses. 6.4. Special Exception Uses:  Group Homes Home Occupation  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations  Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special exception uses. 6.5. Prohibited Uses:  Mobile Homes Multi-family dwellings Townhouses  39  Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use 6.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations   AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area Single Family Dwelling Manufactured Dwelling 12,000 square feet 12,000 square feet Two Family Dwelling 15,000 square feet  Minimum Lot Width Single Family Dwelling Corner lot Interior lot Manufactured Home Corner lot Interior lot Two-Family Dwelling Corner lot Interior lot   90 feet 75 feet  90 feet 75 feet  100 feet 85 feet  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  35 feet 40 feet 10 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- way)  Maximum Building Area of Lot  35 Percent  40  6.7. Buffer Regulations. Special exception uses, except home occupations, shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut a FAR, RR, PRD, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 or R-5 district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 6.8. Supplemental Requirements for Single Family Dwellings, Two-Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes  A. A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a length no to exceed four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and the width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum width less than 24 feet. This measurement shall only include the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, carports, decks and storage areas,  B. All dwellings shall have a permanent masonry underpinned foundation which extends from the ground to the bottom of the exterior wall and surrounds the entire dwelling, the underpinned foundation being either brick, masonry painted materials painted the same color as the building. C. Each manufactured home shall be blocked and anchored in compliance with applicable law, rule or regulation. D. Axles, trailer tongues, wheels, tires, taillights and license plates shall be removed or hidden from view. E. All dwellings shall have permanent steps, porches or decks on all outside doorways, the supports for which shall be permanently anchored in the ground. F. All dwellings shall have at least a 3:12 roof pitch and the roof shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition shingles, fiberglass or metal tiles. G. The applicant shall submit proof that there are no restrictive covenants preventing the placement of a manufactured home on the subject property. H. Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures Code. 41 6.9. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. Section 7.0 R-5 Medium Density Residential District  7.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-5 Medium Density Residential district. 7.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to promote a quality living environment through the provision of land for a variety of medium density housing including single family dwellings, manufactured homes and two-family dwellings. 7.3. Permitted Uses  Single Family Dwellings Manufactured Homes Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses. 7.4. Special Exception Uses: Group Home Home Occupation  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations. Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special exception uses. 7.5. Prohibited Uses:  Mobile Homes Multi-Family Dwellings Townhouse Dwellings  Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use     42 7.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations    AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area Single Family Dwelling Manufactured Dwelling Two Family Dwelling  12,000 square feet 12,000 square feet 15,000 square feet  Minimum Lot Width Single Family Dwelling Corner lot Interior lot Manufactured Home Corner lot Interior lot Two-Family Dwelling Corner lot Interior lot   90 feet 75 feet  90 feet 75 feet  100 feet 85 feet  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  35 feet 40 feet 10 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- way) Maximum Building Area of Lot 35 Percent   7.7. Buffer Regulations. Special exception uses, except home occupations, shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut as FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, R-2 R-3 R-4 or R-5 district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 43  7.8. Supplemental Requirements for Single Family Dwellings, Two-Family Dwellings and Manufactured Homes:  A. All dwellings shall have a permanent masonry underpinned foundation which extends from the ground to the bottom of the exterior wall and surrounds the entire dwelling, the underpinned foundation being either brick, or masonry painted materials painted the same color as the building. B. Each manufactured home shall be blocked and anchored in compliance with applicable law, rule or regulations. C. Axles, trailer tongues, wheels, tires, taillights and license plates shall be removed or hidden from view. D. All dwellings shall have permanent steps, porches or decks on all outside doorways, the supports for which shall be permanently anchored in the ground. E.  All dwellings shall have at least 3:12 roof pitch and the roof shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition shingles, fiberglass or metal tiles. F. The applicant shall submit proof that there are no restrictive covenants preventing the placement of a manufactured home on the subject property. G. Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures Code. 7.9. Additional regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 44 Section 8.0 R-6 High Density Residential district  8.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-6 High Density Residential District. 8.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide affordable housing opportunities by permitting attached dwellings. 8.3. Permitted Uses:  Multi-family dwellings, including condominiums and cooperatives Assisted living facilities Townhouses Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses. 8.4. Special Exception Uses:  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping Stations  Qualifying Home Occupation  Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special exception uses. 8.5. Prohibited Uses:  Single-family dwellings Two family dwellings Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes  Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use  8.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  45 Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following requirements. AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Maximum Density  Townhouses  Multi-Family Dwellings   15 units per acre  15 units per acre  Minimum Lot Width  Townhouse  Multi-Family Dwelling   20 feet  100 feet  Maximum Building Height  50 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  30 feet 35 feet 20 feet; 30 feet from a public street right-of- way  Maximum Building Area of Lot for Multi- Family Dwellings  40 Percent  8.7. Buffer Regulations. Multi-family dwellings and special exception uses, shall provide a buffer which is at least a twenty (20) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, or R-5 district. Townhouse dwellings shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut said districts. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 8.8. Supplemental Regulations for Townhouses:  A. Each townhouse shall be located on a separate lot. B. No more than eight (8) nor fewer than three (3) continuous townhouses shall be built in a row. C. All dwellings shall have a permanent masonry underpinned foundation which extends from the ground to the bottom of the exterior wall and  46 surrounds the entire dwelling, the underpinned foundation being either brick, or masonry painted materials painted the same color as the building. D. Minimum side yard requirements shall only apply to townhouse groupings, not each townhouse. E. All townhouses shall be connected to the public sanitary sewer system. F. A continuous group of dwellings shall not exceed 240 feet in length. 8.9. Additional Regulations:  A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X   Section 9.0. MHR Manufactured Home Subdivision District  9.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in the section, are the regulations in the MHR Manufactured Home Subdivision District. 9.2. Statement of Intent. It is the intent of this district to allow for the placement of manufactured homes, on single family residential lots in subdivisions established solely for the purpose of home ownership. 9.3. Permitted Uses:  Manufactured homes Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Support services necessary to service the needs of the residents of the manufactured home subdivision  Recreational facilities, which are accessory to the manufactured home subdivision  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned permitted uses  9.4. Special Exception Uses:  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations  Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII  47 Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special exception uses  9.5. Prohibited Uses:  Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use. 9.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  Dwellings and other structures shall be so located so as to comply with the following requirements:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  15,000 square feet  Minimum Lot Width  100 feet  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  From a permanent building  45 feet 40 feet 12 feet, (20 feet from a public street right-of- way) 25 feet  Maximum Building Area  45 percent  9.7. Buffer Regulations. A buffer which is at least a twenty (20) feet wide shall be provided along all MHR boundaries which abut an FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, or R-2 district. 9.8. Additional Requirements:  A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X C. The wheels, towing tongue and hitch shall be removed from all manufactured homes located in the MHR district. D. No later than thirty (30) days after placement of a manufactured home dwelling on a site, the area between the bottom of the unit and the ground shall be enclosed by permanent masonry underpinned foundation which extends from the ground to the bottom of the exterior wall and surrounds  the entire dwelling, the underpinned foundation being brick, or masonry painted materials painted the same color as the building. An inspection shall be conducted no later than thirty-two (32) days after the placement of the  48 dwelling on the site for compliance with these regulations. E. Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures Code. Section 10.0 MH Manufactured Home Park District  10.1 Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the MH Manufactured Home Park District. 10.2 Statement of Intent. It is the intent of this district to allow for manufactured home parks to be established where manufactured home spaces are rented, for compensation. The purpose of the district is to provide an extended choice of affordable housing opportunities. 10.3. Permitted Uses:  Manufactured home park Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Support services necessary to service the needs of the residents of the manufactured home park  Recreational facilities which are necessary to the manufactured home park  10.4. Special Exception Uses:  Utility uses such as: electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations  Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special exception uses  10.5. Prohibited Uses  Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use  10.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations  Dwellings and other structures shall be so located so as to comply with the following requirements:  49  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Space Area 5,000 square feet  Minimum Space Width  50 feet  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  From a permanent building or manufactured home  20 feet 20 feet 12 feet, (20 feet from a public street right-of- way)  25 feet  Maximum Building Area  45 percent  10.7. Development Requirements:  The following minimum standards shall apply to all manufactured home parks:  A. All internal park drives shall have a minimum twenty (20) foot wide all- weather surface. At least two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on each space. B. All sewage disposal facilities and water supply facilities must be approved by the State Health Department and provided to each space. Permanent facilities for clothes washing and laundering shall be provided for park residents. Said facilities shall meet the State Health Department requirements. C. Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures Code. D. Each manufactured home park shall submit a fire protection plan which must comply with the minimum standards of the appropriate fire department. E. Each space in a manufactured home park shall be provided with two (2) thirty (30) gallon refuse cans having vermin-proof lids. Regular garbage and refuse pick-up service must be provided at each manufactured home park. F. Each manufactured home park providing ten (10) or more manufactured  50 home spaces must provide suitable playground area of not less than three hundred (300) square feet for each manufactured home space. G.  Electrical connections to each space shall conform to the specifications of the National Electrical Code, as amended. At least one street or night light shall be provided for each ten (10) spaces or a fraction thereof. H. No site shall be used for a manufactured home park which is subject to flood or undue pooling of water, or air pollution by smoke, dust, or fumes. I. Site development plans submitted for rezoning to the MH District shall include the requirements of Article III, Section 2.1 and the following information: street and space layout, location and designation of buildings and other facilities including detailed plans for water supply, sewerage and sewage disposal, garbage disposal and area drainage; and other information deemed by the City as necessary to determine compliance with the requirements of this Section. J. Each manufactured home park shall operate under supervision of a resident manager who shall be on duty on the premises at all times. K. The State Health Department shall issue permits to persons who operate Manufactured home parks which comply with the requirements of this Section. a. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the operation of a manufactured home park, without having applied for and obtained from the State Health Officer a permit based on satisfactory compliance with the foregoing specifications and regulations. b. The said permit shall be issued without charge to the permit tee; shall be non-transferable with respect to persons or establishments; shall be kept posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment; shall automatically expire on the date upon which state and county privilege licenses expire annually; and shall be renewable during the sixty (60) days prior to that date each year. c. The issuance of a permit for the operation of a manufactured home park, for a year, for part of a year, or for operation at new location, shall be continued upon compliance with regulations as determined by one or more inspections. d. The said permit may be revoked because of the violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance; provided that the holder of said permit shall have the legal right of appeal. 50 10.8 Buffer Regulations. A buffer which is at least a twenty (20) feet wide shall be provided along all MH boundaries which abut an FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 or R-5 district. 10.9 Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X  Section 11.0 Institution District  11.1 Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the Institution District. 11.2 Statement of Intent. To establish areas for institution uses which are neither residential nor commercial in nature. 11.3 Permitted Uses:  Airport Business college or vocational school Cemetery Church or other place of worship College or University Hospital Lodges and fraternal orders wherein alcoholic beverages are not consumed nor sold Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations Post Office  Public buildings and facilities, except those which are listed as a permitted use in the M-1 or M-2 districts  Public park and recreation facilities Public and private schools  11.4 Special Exception Uses  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations  Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII  Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special exception uses  11.5 Prohibited Uses:  51  Residential, institution, commercial and industrial uses which are not specifically listed a permitted or special exception use  11.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  60 feet, (40 feet when any portion of the property adjoins an FAR, R-1, R-2 or R-4 residential district)  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  35 feet  25 feet  15 feet, (25 feet abutting a public street right- of-way)  11.7 Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines, which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. Uses, which feature outdoor activity, such as parks and playgrounds, shall provide a twenty (20) foot wide buffer along all side and rear property lines, which abut said districts. 11.8 Additional Regulations:  A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscaping Regulations, Article X. C. Because of the unique nature of institution uses, and their need to be located in proximity to residential areas, the use of each lot or parcel in the Institutional District shall be limited to those uses and configuration shown on the site development plan approved as part of the rezoning process. Amendments to the approved site development plan must be approved by the City according to the procedures set forth in Article III, Sub Section 2.1. Because of the unique nature of institution uses, rezoning applications for the Institution District shall submit a site development plan which includes all of the information required in Article III, Sub Section 2.1., plus the location and dimensions of the following:  52 1. Buildings and structures 2. Exterior lighting and signs 3. Buffers and fences 4. Outside storage areas 5. Parking and loading areas  Section 12.0 (O) Office District  12.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the Office District. 12.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide areas for office uses, which are compatible with nearby residential areas. 12.3. Permitted Uses:  Business offices, professional offices, government offices and offices of public or private non-profit organizations  Medical clinic Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Office uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the intent of this district  12.4. Special Exception Uses:  Assisted living facilities Research and testing labs Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks and above ground pumping stations  12.5. Prohibited Uses:  All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is specified as a permitted use in the C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, unless said use is specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district. 53 12.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  60 feet, (40 feet when any portion of the property adjoins an FAR, R-1, R-2 or R-4 residential district)  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  35 feet  25 feet  15 feet, (25 feet abutting a public street right- of-way)  12.7. Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines, which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 12.8. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffer and Landscape Regulations, Article X. Section 13.0 C-1 Neighborhood Business District  13.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the C-1 Neighborhood Business District. 13.2. Statement of Intent: It is the intent of this district to provide areas for limited retail and service businesses which serve and are appropriate near residential areas. 13.3. Permitted Uses:  54 Retail and service businesses, which are limited in character and size to that which is appropriate near residential areas. Establishments may display merchandise outside, but shall not have any outside storage of materials, merchandise, equipment or supplies. Permitted uses shall include the following types of uses and businesses: Any use permitted in the Office District, plus: Bank or lending institution Barber shop, beauty shop and similar personal service shops  Child or adult care center  Convenience store, provided that gasoline pumps shall be located at least fifty (50) feet from a residential district boundary  Drug store Dry cleaning and laundry outlets Hardware store Mail and packaging services Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations  Off-premise sale of alcoholic beverages, in establishments where the sale of alcoholic beverages is not the primarily use or business activity  Shopping center Video tape rental  Retail and service uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the intent of this district  13.4. Special Exception Uses:  Residential Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks and above ground pumping stations  13.5. Prohibited Uses:  All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is specified as a permitted use in the Institution, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, unless said use is specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district  55 13.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  30 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  35 feet  25 feet  15 feet, (25 feet abutting a public street right- of-way)  13.7. Buffer Regulations:  All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet wide along all rear and side property lines, which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 13.8. Additional Regulations:  A. Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X  Section 14.0 C-2 Local Business District  14.1 Generally: The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the C-2 Local Business District. 14.2. Statement of Intent: It is the intent of this district to provide areas for a variety of retail and service businesses which are appropriate near residential areas, but serve a larger area than the immediate neighborhood. 14.3. Permitted Uses:  Retail and service businesses, which are limited in character and size to that which is appropriate near residential areas. Establishments may display merchandise outside, but all outside storage of materials, merchandise, equipment or supplies shall be screened  56 from view from the public rights-of-way and residential districts. Permitted uses shall include the following types of uses and businesses:  Any use permitted in the C-1 District  Automobile repair, provided that all service work is done within an enclosed building and all storage, including vehicles, is located behind the front building line of the main building and screened from view. No vehicle shall be stored on the premises for more than thirty (30) days nor shall any vehicle be stored on Public Right of Way. Business Services such as blueprinting, duplicating, computer and copier sales & service Car wash Catering shop Commercial music, dancing and martial arts schools Eyeglass and vision center Funeral home  Gasoline service station, provided that gasoline pumps shall be located at least fifty (50) feet from a residential district boundary  Grocery store Nursing home  On-premise sale of alcoholic beverages, in establishments where the sale of alcoholic beverages is not the primary use or business activity Photograph developing and processing shops Plant nursery, greenhouse Post Office  Photocopy center Repair service for such items as appliances, electronics, shoes, watches or jewelry Restaurant, except restaurant with drive-up window service  Specialty shops including but not limited to: antiques, art and school supplies, art galleries and studios, books, cosmetics, stationary, camera, glassware, clothing, coins, stamps, florist, gifts, novelties, hobbies, arts and crafts, jewelry, leather, magazines, photography studios, picture framing, shoes, sporting goods, tailoring, toys, upholstery shops and variety stores  Retail and service uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the intent of this district  14.4. Special Exception Uses:  Residential Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII  57 Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks and above ground pumping stations  14.5.Prohibited Uses:  All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is specified as a permitted use in the C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, unless said use is specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district  14.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  40 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  35 feet  25 feet  15 feet, (25 feet abutting a public street right- of-way)  14.7. Buffer Regulations:  All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet wide along all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR, residential district, POD, the Office District or the Institution District. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 14.8. Additional Regulations:  A. Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. B. Buffer and Landscaping Regulations, Article X. Section 15.0 C-3 Community Business D istrict  15.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the C-3 Community Business District. 58 15.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide areas for retail and service uses, which are community-wide in scope. 15.3. Permitted Uses: Any use permitted in the C-2 Local Business District Automobile dealership, used car lot Bakeries  Business services such as blueprinting, duplication, and computer and copier sales and service  Commercial recreation uses such as miniature golf, par 3 golf, golf driving range, batting cages, bowling alley, skating rink, video arcade and similar uses  Discount and department stores  Equipment and vehicle rental business, provided that all service work is done within an enclosed building and all storage is screened from view from all public rights-of-way and residential districts  Home furnishing establishments including carpet, furniture and appliances Indoor flea market Off-premise sale of alcoholic beverages  On-premise sale of alcoholic beverages Hotels and motels Mobile home sales and service Paint, wallpaper and home decoration stores  Power equipment sales and service centers, provided that all service work is done within an enclosed building and all storage is screened from view from all public rights-of-way and residential districts  Radio or television broadcasting studio Restaurants Self service storage facilities, subject to Article VII, Section 11.0 Taxidermy Theater and drive-in theater Vehicle towing service, with no vehicle storage on premises Veterinarian, with no outdoor kennels  Retail and service uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the intent of this district. 15.4. Special Exception Uses:  59 Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII  Light manufacturing, fabricating, processing or assembly under the following stipulations. All work to be performed in an enclosed building. The business must not create any danger to health or safety in surrounding areas and not create any objectionable noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare. A buffer will be required as specified in section 15.7 of the c-3 commercial district. If a six foot privacy fence is used as a buffer as allowed in section 15.7, the finished side of the fence must face away from the property requiring the buffer. (Adopted December 22 nd . 2003. Ordinance No. 2003-25)  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping station  15.5. Prohibited Uses:  All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is specified as a permitted use in the Institution, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, unless said use is specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district. 15.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  40 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  45 feet  25 feet  15 feet (25 feet abutting a public street right- of way)  Maximum Building Area  30 percent  15.7 Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer which is at least twenty (20) feet wide along all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 or R-5 residential district. All uses shall provide a buffer which is at least twelve (12) feet wide along all rear and side property lines which abut an R-6 district, PRD-2, POD, Office District or  60 the Institution district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 15.8. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. Section 16.0 M-1 Light Industrial District  16.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the M-1 Light Industrial District. 16.2. Statement of Intent: It is the intent of this district to provide areas for manufacturing and storage which do not create any danger to health or safety in surrounding areas and which so not create any objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare. 16.3 Permitted Uses:  Above ground storage of liquid motor fuels, provided that loading platforms be set back at least 150 feet from any property line. All above ground storage tanks shall be provided with separate containment reservoirs, each reservoir being of sufficient capacity to insure containment of the storage tank contents when completely full in event of rupture or leak. Such reservoirs shall be set back at least 200 feet from any property line and 1,000 feet from any residential district boundary. Automobile and truck repair Contractor and construction company yards Governmental public works facility Heavy equipment sales and service Manufacturing, fabricating, processing or assembling uses Printing and publishing establishments Recycling collection point for household items Self service storage facilities, subject to Article VII, Section 11.0 Textile mills and facilities Truck terminal  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations. Water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations and facilities for heavy vehicle and equipment storage  Vehicle towing service Warehouse and office – warehouse Wholesale establishments Similar light industrial uses which comply with the intent of this district  61 16.4 Special Exception Uses:  Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII  16.5 Prohibited Uses:  Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district. 16.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  60 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front  Rear  Side  50 feet  50 feet  25 feet  16.7. Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twenty-five (25) feet wide along all rear and side property lines, except those property lines which abut property zoned M-1 or M- 2. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot privacy fence may not be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 16.8. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. Section 17.0 M-2 Heavy Industrial District  17.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the M-2 Heavy Industrial District. 17.2. Statement of Intent. It is the intent of this district to provide areas for heavy manufacturing and storage which have the potential to create objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare. 62  17.3. Permitted Uses:  Any use permitted in the M-1 Light Industrial District. Above ground storage of flammable or combustible liquids provided that loading platforms shall be set back at least 150 feet from all property lines. All above ground storage tanks shall be provided with separate containment reservoirs, each reservoir being of sufficient capacity to ensure containment of the storage tank contents when completely full in event of rupture or leak. Such reservoirs shall be set back at least 200 feet from all property lines and 1,000 feet from any residential district boundary. Automobile salvage and dismantling Central mixing plant for cement, mortar, plaster or paving materials Fixed plants for processing stone, chert, gravel and clay Foundry Manufacture of brick, tile and concrete blocks Railroad yard Salvage yard and processing of recycled materials Sawmill Vehicle towing service with vehicle storage  Similar heavy industrial manufacturing uses which comply with the intent of this district  17.4. Special Exception Uses:  Any use or process, which involves volatile materials Any use which emits obnoxious odors Sanitary landfill and solid waste transfer station Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII Wastewater treatment plant. 17.5 Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  60 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front  Rear  Side  100 feet  100 feet  100 feet  63  17.6. Buffer regulations:  All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twenty-five (25) wide along all rear and side property lines, except those property lines which abut property zoned M-2. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may not be substitutes for the required buffer along said alley. 17.7. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape regulations, Article X. Section 18.0 Planned Development District (PDD)  18.1. Statement of Intent. Planned development is a method of development which permits more than one use to be developed on a tract of land according to an approved master development plan; the intent of which is to:  A. Create a community which features a variety of residential densities and land uses in a manner which connects those neighborhoods and uses by a coordinated system of commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. B. Permit flexibility and consequently more creative and imaginative design to accommodate planned associations of uses developed as integral land use units. C. Promote the efficient use of land to facilitate a more economic arrangement of uses, buildings, pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems and utilities. D. Combine and coordinate uses, building forms, building relationships, architectural styles and circulations systems within the PDD. E. Preserve and enhance the significant natural features of the site. 18.2. PDD Standard:  A. Except when an existing approved PDD is amended to include additional area, any tract of land to be zoned PDD shall have a minimum of one hundred (100) acres. B. Twenty (20) percent of the gross tract acreage of a PDD shall be devoted to commonly owned open space. At least one half of that amount shall be comprised of tree save and natural areas. All commonly owned open space shall be incorporated throughout the PDD to form a continuous network of  64 open space which enhances scenic quality and pedestrian circulation within the PDD. C. The PDD shall have an architecturally unified design theme which runs throughout the community. The design theme shall be accomplished by unified design of the following elements: entrance features, landscaping, lighting, color, architecture, right-of-way treatments, signs, and similar elements that are common throughout the community. D. The average maximum residential density of a PDD shall be three (3) dwelling units per gross tract acre of property zoned for residential use. although some areas may exceed this density, the average density of property zoned for residential use in the PDD shall be three (3) dwelling units per acre. E. Each lot or parcel of land in the PDD, which is devoted to uses other than detached single family residential use, shall not exceed 80 percent impervious surfaces. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to: buildings, parking areas, paved drainage structures, walkways and other surfaces which are impervious to water. F. Every PDD shall feature a variety of land uses. If it is not appropriate to have commercial or industrial land uses in a PDD, land use variety shall be accomplished by providing a variety of residential densities. Every PDD shall feature a variety of residential densities. G. All of the property within the PDD shall be allocated to one or more of the following zoning districts:  1. PRD-1 Planned Single Family residential District 2. PRD-2 Planned Attached Residential District 3. POD Planned Office and Institution District 4. PCD-1 Planned Neighborhood Commercial District 5. PCD-2 Planned Commercial District 6. PID Planned Industrial District  H. Each PDD shall establish an entity which owns and is responsible for the perpetual maintenance of all commonly owned property and improvements. I. Every lot or parcel in a PDD shall front a public street and all public improvements shall comply with the valley Subdivision Regulations. J. All structures shall be located so as to conform to the Standard Building Code and Standard Fire Prevention Code. K. The following standards shall apply to all property in the PDD, except  65 PRD-1 zoning districts:  1. Service and loading areas, outdoor storage areas, trash receptacles, utility equipment, mechanical units and similar appurtenances shall be located so as to minimize visibility from public property and shall be visually screened from view from public property. Trash receptacles shall be located within a four sided structure which completely conceals the trash receptacle. The color and architecture of the structures shall be compatible with that of the building which it serves. 2. The intensity, location and design of exterior lighting shall be such that light is not cast upon adjacent property or the public right-of- way. Light fixtures shall be designed to cast light downward. Where necessary, cut-off devices shall be used to minimize glare off premises. Exterior lights shall not exceed 24 feet in height and the fixtures and poles shall be compatible with the architecture of the buildings on the premises. 3. The City’s Sign Regulations shall comply to all PDD’s, except that free standing signs shall not exceed 12 feet in height or the maximum height permitted in the Sign Regulations for the subject sign, whichever height is less. 18.3. PDD Zoning Application Requirements:  PDD zoning applications shall be reviewed in compliance with the procedures set forth in Article III, Section 2.1. PDD zoning applications shall also include the following information:  A. A development plan, drawn to a scale of not more than one inch equals one hundred (100) feet, which shows the following:  1. Boundary of the PDD in relation to surrounding property, and public streets and highways. 2. Boundary of each PDD zoning district. 3. Conceptual public street plan and pedestrian circulation plan for the PDD and the manner in which the proposed streets will connect to the existing street system of the surrounding area. 4. Proposed lot layout for the PDD  5. The location of all existing and proposed: bodies of water, easements and rights-of-way, rivers, streams, railroads, tree save areas, commonly  66 owned open space, proposed public use sites, pedestrian ways, buffers intended to separate the PDD from surround land uses and similar features and improvements. B. A topography map of the PDD in not less than ten (10) foot contour intervals. C. Development Criteria: Each application for a PDD shall include a written text which addresses the following planning issues:  1. A legal description of the total site proposed for the PDD and a legal description of each PDD zoning district. 2. A general description of the surrounding area, including current zoning and/or land uses. 3. A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the PDD, and a description of the character of the proposed development. 4. A development schedule indicating the estimate date when construction of the PDD or stages of the PDD can be expected to begin. 5. Provisions and/or plans providing necessary utilities to and within the PDD. 6. Protective and/or restrictive covenants which shall encumber the property and establish standards pursuant to Subsection 16.2© of this Section. 7. A comprehensive traffic study, prepared by a registered professional Engineer, which estimates the projected traffic to be generated by each component of the PDD, and the effect of the projected traffic attributed to the PDD upon the City of valley. 8. Total acreage of the PDD and for each PDD zoning district. 9. Average density of development expressed in units per acre for residential property and gross floor area per acre for other land uses. 10. The amount of commonly owned open space and the percent distribution of open space within each PDD zoning district. 18.4. PRD-1 Planned Single Family Residential District:  A. Statement of Intent: To provide areas for detached single family residential dwellings which are connected to all other parts of the planned community  67 by a network of commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. B. Permitted Uses: The same permitted uses as in the R-1 Low Density Residential District, subject to the same conditions. C. Special Exception uses: The same special exception uses as in the R-1 Low Density Residential District, subject to the same conditions. D. Prohibited Uses: The same prohibited uses as in the R-1 Low Density Residential District, subject to the same conditions. E. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Maximum Density  The average density of all residential districts in the PDD shall not exceed 3 dwelling units per acre  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  25 feet 25 feet 8 feet   F. Buffer Regulations. Same as the R-1 Low Density Residential District  H. Additional regulations. Same as the R-1 Low Density Residential District  18.5 PRD-2 Planned Attached Residential District:  A. Statement of Intent. To provide areas for attached dwellings, which are connected to all other parts of the planned community by a network of commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. B. Permitted Uses: The same permitted uses as in the R-6 High Density Residential District, subject to the same conditions  C. Special Exception Uses. The same special exception uses as in the R-6 High Density Residential District, subject to the same conditions  68 D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the R-6 High Density Residential District, subject to the same conditions  E. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Maximum Density  A maximum of 80 percent impervious surfaces. The average density of all residential districts in the PDD shall not exceed 3 dwelling units per acre  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  30 feet 30 feet 30 feet  F. Buffer Regulations: Same as the R-6 High Density Residential District  G. Additional Regulations. Same as the R-6 High Density Residential District  18.5. POD Planned Office and Institution district:  A. Statement of Intent. To provide areas for office and institution uses which are connected to all other parts of the planned community by a network of commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. B. Permitted Uses. The same permitted uses as in the Institution District and the Office District, subject to the same conditions  C. Special Exception Uses. The same special exception uses as in the Institution District and the Office District, subject to the same conditions  D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the Institution District and the Office District , subject to the same conditions  69 E. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Maximum Density  A maximum of 80 percent impervious surfaces  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  Four stories  Minimum Building Setbacks  All buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from a public street right-of-way and the POD boundary. F. Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer which is at least twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR or residential district. Uses which feature outdoor activity, such as parks and playgrounds, shall provide a twenty (20) foot wide buffer along all side and rear property lines which abut said districts. G. Additional Regulations. Same as the Office District  18.7 PCD-1 Planned Neighborhood Commercial District:  A. Statement of Intent. To establish and preserve areas for neighborhood commercial facilities which serve and are compatible with surrounding residential areas and are connected to all other parts of the planned community by a network of commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. B. Permitted Uses. The same permitted uses as in the C-1 Neighborhood Business District, subject to the same conditions  C. Special Exception Uses. The same special exception uses as in the C-1 Neighborhood Business District, subject to the same conditions  D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the C-1 Neighborhood Business District, subject to the same conditions  70  Area and dimensional regulations    AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Maximum Density  Maximum of 80 percent impervious surfaces  Maximum Gross Floor Area of each establishment  2,500 square feet  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks  All buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from the PCD-1 boundary which adjoins a residential district  F. Buffer Regulations. Same as the C-1 Neighborhood Business District  G. Additional Regulations. Same as the C-1 Neighborhood Business District  18.8. Planned Commercial District (PCD-2)  A. Statement of Intent. To provide areas for retail and service businesses which serve a community-wide market and are generally not compatible within residential neighborhoods but are connected to all other parts of the planned community by a network of commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. B. Permitted Uses. The same permitted uses as in the C-3 Community Business District, subject to the same conditions  C. Special Exception Uses. The same special exception uses as in the C-3 Community Business District, subject to the same conditions  D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the C-3 Community Business District, subject to the same conditions. Area and Dimensional Regulations  71  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Maximum Density  Maximum of 80 percent impervious surfaces  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks  All buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from a PCD-2 boundary which adjoins a residential district  F. Buffer Regulations. Same as the C-3 Community Business District  G. Additional Regulations. Same as the C-3 Community Business District  18.9. Planned Industrial District (PID)  A. Statement of Intent. To provide areas for manufacturing and storage which do not create any danger to health or safety in surrounding areas and which do not create any objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor heat or glare; and which may be connected to all other parts of the planned community owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. B. Permitted Uses. The same permitted uses as in the M-1 Light Industrial District, subject to the same conditions  C. Special Exception Uses. The same uses as in the M-1 Light Industrial District, subject to the same conditions  D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the M-1 Light Industrial District, subject to the same conditions  72 E. Area and Dimensional regulations  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Maximum Density  Maximum of 80 percent impervious surfaces  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  35 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks  All buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from a PID boundary. F. Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twenty five (25) feet wide along all rear and side property lines, except those property lines which abut property zoned M-1 or M-2. G. Additional Regulations. Same as the M-1 Light Industrial District  18.10. Mixed Uses. In the PCD-1 and PCD-2 districts, residential uses may be located on building floors above commercial uses. Such mixed uses shall be designated on the approved PDD Development Plan and described in Planning Criteria. All such dwellings shall count toward the maximum permitted residential density of three (3) dwelling units per acre. 18.11. PDD Amendments. The following changes to the development Criteria or approved Development Plan, shall require approval by the Planning Commission and City Council pursuant the procedures set forth in Article III, Subsection 2.1:  A. Any change in PDD zoning district boundaries B. Any change to the conceptual street plan which would: 1. Change a cul-de-sac street to a through street 2. Change a through street to a cul-de-sac or dead end street 3. Change the intent or function of the pedestrian circulation system or commonly owned open space network C. Any change in the Development Criteria approved as part of the PDD. D. Any variances to zoning ordinance provisions, which apply to a PDD and are not part of this Section, must be approved by the Board of Zoning adjustment. 73 Section 19.0. RD Redevelopment District  19.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance when referred to in this section, are the regulations in the RD, Redevelopment District. 19.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of the Redevelopment District is to provide for the establishment of areas for the development of former industrial or commercial properties into multi use sites. 19.3. Permitted Uses:  Farmers Market Retail Businesses approved by the Planning Commission Hotel Light Manufacturing Professional Offices Museums School Classrooms Warehousing Theaters Restaurants Loft Apartments Accessory Structures or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned permitted uses. Note: Signage will conform to the City Sign Ordinance. 19.4. Special Exception Uses:  Any Professional, Commercial or Light Industrial Use that would be compatible with the listed permitted uses. Accessory Structures or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned special exception uses. 19.5. Prohibited Uses:  Residential, commercial, institutional and industrial uses which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use. 74 19.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  60 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front  Rear  Side  10 feet  10 feet  10 feet   Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. Section 20.0. PK Park District  20.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance when referred to in this section, are the regulations in the PK, Park District  20.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of the Park District is to provide for the establishment of parks to preserve Green Space and provide for the natural habitat of wildlife. 20.3. Permitted Uses:  Pedestrian Trails Picnic Tables and Shelters Grills  Observation Decks  Natural Habitat Viewing Blinds  Elevated Walkways  Restrooms  20.4. Special Exception Uses:  Events that are sponsored or co-sponsored by the City of Valley. 75 Camping with approval of City Council. 20.5. Prohibited Uses:  Any use that is not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use. 20.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  30 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front  Rear  Side  10 feet  10 feet  10 feet  20.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, shall provide a buffer which is at least twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 1.10. Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. Section 21.0. RP River Park District  21.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance when referred to in this section, are the regulations in the RP, River Park District. 21.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of the River Park District is to provide for the establishment of areas along the Chattahoochee River to provide for the preservation of natural and scenic areas for outdoor Recreation and to provide protection of such lands from premature or incompatible development. 76 21.3. Permitted Uses:  Pedestrian Trails Picnic Tables and Shelters Grills Observation Decks Natural Habitat Viewing Blinds Elevated Walkways Camping with approval of City Council. Fishing Boat Launches Model Airplane Flying Fishing Rest Rooms  21.4. Special Exception Uses:  • Events coordinated with Valley Parks and Recreation. • Small Scale Model Air shows. • Commercial Businesses that promote outdoor recreation along the Chattahoochee River that would not endanger natural and scenic areas and will be compatible with the intent of the River Park District. 21.5. Prohibited Uses:  Any use that is not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use. 21.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations:    AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  None  Maximum Building Height  30 feet  Minimum Building Setbacks Front  Rear  Side  10 feet  10 feet  10 feet  77 Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. Section 22.0 MP Medical Park District  22.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the Medical Park District. 22.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide areas for uses, which are associated with Medical Health Care of Individuals, “Research, Rehabilitation and/or Training”. 22.3. Permitted Uses:  Assisted Living Facilities Extended Care Facilities Eye Clinics Hospitals for Humans Medical and Dental Clinics Medical Research and Testing Labs Medical Training Facilities Nursing Homes Park and Recreational Facilities Pharmacies Rehabilitation Facilities Retail Medical Supply State and County Health Departments  Municipal Police, Fire and Emergency Medical Stations  Uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the intent of this district, with prior approval of the Planning Commission. 22.4. Special Exception Uses:  Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII,  Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks and below ground pumping stations  22.5. Prohibited Uses:  78 All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is specified as a permitted use in the C-1, C-2, C-3, I, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, unless said use is specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district. 22.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations:  AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS  Minimum Lot Area  None  Minimum Lot Width  60 Feet  Maximum Building Height  60 feet, (40 feet when any portion of the property adjoins a residential district)  Minimum Building Setbacks Front Rear Side  35 feet  25 feet  15 Feet (25 feet abutting a public street right of way)    22.7. Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines, which abut a residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. If a privacy fence is used, the finished side must face the residential district. 22.8.Additional Regulations. A. Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. B. Buffer and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 22.9 Reserved for Design Standards     79  ARTICLE VII SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS   Section 1.0. Fences and Walls. A. Height on residential properties. Fences or walls that divide the front yard of a house from the adjoining street shall not exceed a height of four (4) feet. In the case of a corner lot, fences or walls that divide the front and adjoining side yard of the house from the adjoining streets shall not exceed a height of four (4) feet. Within any residential district no wall or fence located within the rear or side yards, shall exceed a height of six and one half (6 ½) feet, except as required for a retaining wall or tennis court. B. Appropriate materials. Fences and walls shall be constructed of a durable material such as treated lumber, brick, chain link or equal materials and be attractive in appearance. Barbed wire fencing shall be allowed in FAR – Forestry, Agriculture and Recreational District and only in the rear and side yards of RR – Rural Residential Districts. Razor wire shall not be permitted as part of any wall or fence, except by special exception of the Board of Adjustments within a M1 or M2 Industrial District, where special measures are clearly required to secure the property from public intrusion. C. Fences near roadways. No fence or wall may be erected in the public right- of-way or within twelve (12) feet of the edge of a street or curb except by special exception where special measures are clearly required. No fence, structure or planting shall obstruct visibility of persons operating vehicles in the public right- of-way. Section 2.0 Temporary structures and building material storage. Building materials or temporary structures for construction purposes shall not be placed or stored on any lot or parcel of land before appropriate building permits have been issued by the Zoning Administrator. Such building materials and temporary structures shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. Section 3.0. Outdoor storage of recreation and other vehicles. The outdoor storage or parking of any vehicle, boat, trailer, buses, motorized home and similar large vehicles shall be prohibited for a period greater than forty-eight (48) hours in all residential districts, except where expressly permitted by other provisions of this Ordinance unless the following minimum conditions are met:   80 A. All such vehicles or equipment shall be placed within a completely enclosed building or located behind the front building line or lines in the case of a corner lot or through lot, but no closer than ten (10) feet to any property line. B. Storage or parking shall be limited to a lot or parcel of land, which is improved with an inhabited dwelling and the vehicle or equipment is owned by the occupant. C. In the case of multifamily structures, all such vehicles shall be stored at one location designated for such use and shall be screened from view by a fence or vegetation adequate to conceal the vehicles from view from off the premises. D. Trailer coaches and other vehicles or equipment intended or adaptable for sleeping purposes shall remain unoccupied and shall not be connected to sanitary sewer facilities, or other public utilities. Section 4.0. Storage of inoperable motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to park, leave or store upon any lot, place or premises within the City of Valley any inoperable motor vehicle for a period greater than forty- eight (48) hours, unless such vehicle is in an enclosed building or screened from view by a visually impervious barrier such as a privacy fence or landscaping. Such privacy fencing shall comply with the provisions of Section 4.0 of this Article. For the purpose of this Ordinance, a vehicle shall be deemed inoperable if it cannot be started or driven under its own power. Provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to a properly zoned and licensed business if such parking, leaving or storing of such motor vehicles is a necessary incident in the operation of said business. Section 5.0. Swimming pools. All pools capable of holding 24 inches of water shall be enclosed by a fence with a childproof gate. The fence and gate shall be at least four (4) feet in height and constructed in compliance with the requirements of Section 1.0 of this Article. A. Permanent swimming pools, which are wholly or partially above grade level shall only be permitted in the rear yard when located in a single family or two family residential district and shall be located at lease twenty-five (25) feet from any property line. No mechanical appurtenance shall be located within ten (10) feet of any property line. B. Swimming pools constructed below grade level shall comply with the following:  1. A pool shall only be permitted in the rear when located in a single  81 family or two family residential district. 2. The pool and mechanical appurtenances, shall be setback at least ten (10) feet from any property line. 3. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be constructed to direct the beam below the horizontal plane of the fixture and shall reflect away from any adjacent property. Maximum height of the fixture shall be ten (10) feet. Section 6.0. Private tennis courts. A. Tennis courts for single family and two family dwellings shall be located in the rear yard. B. Tennis courts shall be located at least twenty-five (25) feet from any property line and residential structure. Section 7.0. Storage and dispensing of combustible and flammable liquids, other than for sale. 7.1. Above ground storage. The above ground storage of gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene and other hazardous liquids is prohibited within the City, except that protected above ground storage tanks at commercial, industrial, governmental or manufacturing facilities, intended for fueling vehicles used in connection with those facilities, may be allowed when approved by the appropriate fire chief. Temporary use of movable tanks in conjunction with the dispensing of such liquids into the fuel tanks or motorized equipment on premises not normally accessible to the public is permitted only after written approval for such use has been obtained from the fire chief. 7.2. Below ground storage. The below ground storage and/or dispensing of gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene and other hazardous liquids is prohibited in residential districts, except at governmental facilities when approved by the appropriate fire chief. Such storage of hazardous liquids, other than for sale, is permitted in non-residential districts, upon written approval of the fire chief. The main building of a permanent or temporary business shall be a permanent building which has a roof supported by columns or walls, with walls constructed of wood, metal, glass, brick or masonry materials, which completely enclose the main building area. The permanent building and premises shall conform in all respects to the applicable land and building development codes and ordinances of the City. The main building of any permanent or temporary business shall not be a tent, shelter, mobile building or other structure which does not comply with the intent of this Section. Section 8.0 (DELETED)  82  Section 9.0. Exterior Lighting  All exterior light fixtures shall be designed and located so as to shine down on the premises and to minimize the amount of light which spills off the premises. Except for municipal athletic facilities, the maximum height of exterior light fixtures located on property, any portion of which adjoins a single family residential district, shall be 30 feet. Section 10.0. Garbage and Trash Containers. Except for single family residential dwellings, all garbage and trash containers shall be located within a four sided enclosure, which completely conceals the containers. Section 11.0. Self-Service Storage Facilities  11.1. Requirements for Self-Service Storage Facilities  A. Submission of a site development plan  B. Self-service storage facilities shall be limited to the rental of storage units and the pick-up and deposit of goods or property in dead storage. C. Vehicle and trailer rental may be permitted on the premises as an accessory use, subject to review and approval as a Special Exception Use. Rental vehicles shall not be parked in required parking spaces, drives or parking lanes. D. Storage units shall not be used to manufacture, fabricate or process goods; conduct servicing or repair; conduct garage sales or retail sales of any kind; or conduct any other commercial or industrial activity. E. Individual storage units shall not have electrical outlets except ceiling light ceiling light fixtures and necessary switches. F. The maximum gross floor area of an individual storage unit shall be 340 square feet. G.  Individual storage units or private postal boxes within a self-service storage facility shall not be considered premises for the purpose of assigning a legal address in order to obtain a business license or other governmental permit or license to do business, nor as a legal address for residential purposes. H. The following materials shall not be stored in any self-service storage unit. Each lessee shall be required to sign a written statement certifying that none of the following will be stored in the unit leased by that individual or corporation: 1. Hazardous materials 2. Flammable and combustible liquids 3. Explosives  83 4. Black powder and smokeless powder  I. Except as provided herein, all property stored on the premises shall be entirely within an enclosed building. Open storage of recreation vehicles and boats is permitted, subject to the following: 1. Storage shall occur only in a designated area which is clearly delineated for open storage. 2. Such areas shall not exceed 10 percent of the lot or parcel area. 3. Such areas shall be screened from view from property zoned for detached single family residential use and public property, including the public right-of-way. 4. Storage shall not occur in required parking spaces, drives, parking lanes nor within required building setback areas. 5. No vehicle maintenance, washing or repairs shall be permitted. J. Exterior light fixtures shall be designed and installed so that the light is focused down upon the premises and so that a minimum amount of light shines on adjacent property or the right-of-way. If a facility abuts a residential district, exterior light fixtures shall not exceed 16 feet in height. K. A caretaker or security guard dwelling is permitted on the premises. L. Required parking spaces shall be located adjacent to the building or use which they serve. Floor area within the rental or leasing office, which is devoted to uses other than the rental of storage units, shall be provided with additional parking spaces, at a ratio of one space per 200 square feet of gross floor area. L. Self-service storage facilities which feature both multi-access and limited access storage facilities shall comply with all of the requirements pertaining to both types of storage units. 11.2. Supplemental Regulations Pertaining Only to Multi-Access Facilities  A. Minimum lot area shall be three acres. B. All drives which provide direct access to storage units shall have an adjacent parking lane which extends the full length of the access drive, and is located between the access drive and the storage units. Access drives with direct access to storage units on only one side of the drive shall be at least 20 feet wide, plus one parking lane at least 10 feet wide, for a total width of 30 feet. Access drives with direct access to storage units on both sides of the of the drive shall be at least 20 feet wide, plus one parking lane at least 8 feet wide on each side of the drive, for a total width of 36 feet. C. Storage unit doors shall be screened from view from property zoned for detached single family residential use. The building, including storage unit doors, shall be a color which blends with the surrounding built and natural  84 environment and shall not be a color which attracts attention to the premises. D. The facility shall feature appropriate access and circulation by vehicles and emergency equipment. 11.3. Supplemental Regulations Pertaining Only to Limited Access Facilities  A. Multi-story facilities located in the C-3 District shall feature building materials and architectural design which reduces the scale and mass of the structure, so that the building appears to be an office building, not a storage facility. B. Each entry point to the building used to access hallways leading to the storage units shall accommodate a minimum of two loading berths and related maneuvering areas. The loading and maneuvering areas shall not interfere with the traffic circulation system of the premises. Section 12.0 Accessory Antennas  This section governs antennas which are accessory to the principal use of a premises. Commercial radio and television transmission antennas, and receiving antennas for cable television systems, telecommunications antennas, and other antennas which are the principal use of the premises or constitute a separate business from the principal use of the premises, are not accessory antennas, and are governed by Article VIII. 12.1. Regulations pertaining to all zoned districts. A. All antennas shall be located behind the front building setback lines, or lines, in the case of a corner or through lot. B. Antennas shall be located and designed to minimize negative impact on surrounding property. Materials used in constructing the antenna shall not be unnecessarily bright, shiny or reflective. C. A parabolic antenna subject to the regulations of this Section is any antenna which has a parabolic, dish or circular shape, is more than two (2) feet in diameter, and is an accessory use to the principal use of the lot or parcel on which it is located. Parabolic antennas, two (2) feet or less in diameter, are exempt from the provisions of this Section. 12.2. Regulations pertaining to accessory antennas in the FAR, RR, R-1, R-2, R-4, R-5, MHR, MH and PRD-1 districts. Each lot or parcel which is improved with a dwelling may have the following accessory antennas:  A. One parabolic antenna which is permanently attached to the ground, located in the rear yard at least twelve (12) feet from a property line, and does not exceed sixteen (16) feet in height; and   85 B. One radio or television receiving antenna, other than a parabolic antenna, which does not exceed fifty (50) feet in height; and  C. One federally licensed amateur radio station antenna which does not exceed seventy (70) feet in height. 12.3. Regulations pertaining to accessory antennas in the R-3 and PRD-2 districts. Each lot or parcel which is improved with a dwelling(s) may have the following accessory antennas:  A. One radio or television receiving antenna, other than a parabolic antenna, which does not exceed fifty (50) feet in height; and  B. One federally licensed amateur radio station antenna which does not exceed seventy (70) feet in height; and  C. One ground-mounted parabolic antenna which is permanently attached to the ground, located in the rear yard at least twenty-five (25) feet from a public street right-of-way, ten (10) feet from a property line, and does not exceed sixteen (16) feet in height; or one roof-mounted parabolic antenna which is located at least fifty (50) feet from a single family residential district boundary and does not extend more than ten (10) feet above the roof line. 12.4. Regulations pertaining to accessory antennas in the Institution, Office, Business and Industrial Districts. Each lot or parcel which is improved with a building which is the principal use of the lot or parcel, may have the following accessory antennas:  A. One accessory antenna, other than a parabolic antenna, that does not exceed seventy (70) feet in height, nor fifty (50) feet in height when located within two hundred (200) feet of an FAR, RR, R-1, R-2, R-4, R-5 or PRD-1 district boundary; and  B. One ground-mounted parabolic antenna which is permanently attached to the ground, located in the ear yard at least twenty-five (25) feet from a public street right-of-way, ten (10) feet from a property line, and does not exceed sixteen (16) feet in height; or one roof-mounted parabolic antenna which does not extend more than ten (10) feet above the roof line, and is located at least fifty (50) feet from a single family residential district boundary, if said antenna is more than sic (6) feet in diameter. 86 Section 13.0 Home Occupations, specific requirements  A Home Occupation is intended to be a use conducted in a residential property, with operations occurring entirely within a dwelling and carried out solely by the inhabitant thereof and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the building and/or structure for dwelling purposes. Because the City recognizes that certain home occupations have greater land use impacts than others, this section is designed to establish two (2) types of home occupations. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to clearly explain the scope of the business to ensure the proper regulations are administered. A) Qualifying home occupations are home based businesses that have no outward appearance of business activity, including business identification signage. Examples of qualifying home occupations include (but are not limited to) the following: business office for an otherwise licensed business activity, internet based business, consulting service, etc. No public hearing is required for qualifying home occupation applications, and the administrative official has authority to approve qualifying home occupation applications. Applicants for qualifying home occupations must sign an “Affidavit of Compliance.” The affidavit outlines the minimum requirements listed below. These minimum requirements shall be conditions of approval and must be observed by the applicant. The affidavit shall be signed in the presence of the administrative official (or appointee). Any applicant who refuses to sign the affidavit or is unable to comply with the minimum requirements will be required to apply for a non-qualifying home application. The applicant will not become eligible for the issuance of a business license until the affidavit has been approved by the administrative official. (1) The Business License is valid only for this home occupation, this operator at this location; (2) This home occupation approval is void if the Business License is not obtained within ninety (90) days of approval or if the license is allowed to lapse; (3) Any work conducted in the home (e.g. bookkeeping, etc.) is confined to the principal building and/or structure; (4) No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the home is used for the business; (5) The business shall not involve wholesale or retail sales wherein merchandise is delivered or distributed from the premises; except for crafts and art work created on the premises; (6) Only residents of the home will engage in business activity at the home; (7) The business shall not involve a high volume of traffic which is disruptive to the neighborhood; (8) Accessory buildings and/or structures may not be used for home occupations;  87 (9) Any business-related equipment or materials are kept inside the home; (10) No employees or employee vehicles are allowed at the home; (11) No business-related vehicles are parked at the home; (12) If business-related materials or equipment are delivered to the home, there will be no more than two (2) deliveries per week and the delivery vehicle shall have no more than a single axle with six (6) wheels; (13) The business operator is responsible for observing any private covenants which may impact the home occupation; (14) Any other restriction as may be considered appropriate by the administrative official or the board of zoning adjustment; and (15) Violation of any of the aforementioned conditions could result in revocation of the approval. B) Non-qualifying home occupations are home based businesses that exhibit any outward (visible) signs of business activity, including (but not limited to) the following: lawn care business, contractor, home maintenance business, etc. Nonqualifying home occupations shall be considered special exceptions and shall be subject to board of zoning adjustment approval as outlined in this article. Unless expressly omitted by the board of zoning adjustment, the restrictions listed below shall be considered conditions of approval. However, the board of zoning adjustment may add additional conditions of approval should conditions warrant. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to clearly explain the scope of the business to ensure the proper restrictions are approved and/or omitted by the board of zoning adjustment. (1) The special exception is valid only for the applicant, this home occupation and this location; (2) The special exception is void if a Business License, issued by the City of Valley, is not obtained within ninety (90) days of approval and subsequently if the license is allowed to lapse; (3) No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the home shall be used for the business; (4) The business shall not involve wholesale or retail sales wherein merchandise is delivered or distributed from the premises; except for crafts and art work created on the premises. (5) There shall be no noise, odors or vibrations associated with the business; (6) No employees or employee vehicles are allowed at the home; (7) Only residents of the home are authorized to engage in business activity at the home; (8) The business shall not involve a high volume of traffic which is disruptive to the neighborhood; (9) All work-related activities must be conducted inside the home or at a job site;        (10) No accessory building shall be used in conjunction with the business;            (11) The applicant is allowed to have one (1) business-related vehicle parked on the property, said vehicle shall meet all city ordinances pertaining to vehicles;                  (12) No business-related vehicle may be parked in the street;   (13) Lawn care equipment and/or any trailer used to transport the equipment are shielded from the view of the street and adjacent properties;                    88 (14) No business-related equipment or materials shall be visible from the road or from adjoining properties and shall be stored inside either the single vehicle or inside the home; (15) A day care home (not allowed in apartment or duplex) shall confine all play equipment to the rear yard of the dwelling;                                   (16) Used and/or left over materials shall not be taken to the property;           (17) If business-related materials or equipment are delivered to the home, there shall be no more than two (2) deliveries per week, and the delivery vehicle shall have no more than a single axle with six (6) wheels;                                (18) Applicant is responsible for observing any private covenants which may impact the proposed home occupation;                                (19) Any other restriction as may be considered appropriate by the administrative official or the board of zoning adjustment; and                              (20) Violation of any of the aforementioned conditions could result in revocation of the approval. ARTICLE VIII TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES  Section 1.0. Purpose. In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and businesses while protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the community, these regulations are necessary in order to (1) facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunications services to the residents and businesses of the City; (2) minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design and citing standards; (3) avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure through structural standards and setback requirements; and (4) encourage and maximize the use of existing and approved towers, buildings and other structures to accommodate new wireless telecommunications antennas in order to reduce the number of towers needed to serve the community. Section 2.0. Applicability. This Article shall apply to antennas, towers and other supporting structures which are integral to the principal use of the premises or which are a separate business from the principal use of the property, including, but not limited to: commercial radio and television transmission antennas, television receiving antennas for cable television systems, telecommunications antennas, and other antennas which are not an accessory  89 use of the premises. All such uses shall be a special exception use, except the following uses which shall be a permitted use in all zoning districts. A. Installation of antennas on existing towers where the tower height is not increased and all accessory structures and uses are located within the existing tower compound. B. Installation of antennas on power poles where the height of the pole is not increased, and accessory cabinets and boxes have a volume of less than two cubic feet. C. Installation of antennas owned by public utilities which are accessory to: remote terminal units serving pad mounted switch gear, remote switch controllers and similar telemetry antennas; provided the antenna is attached to a power transmission or distribution pole and does not exceed the height of the pole, or the antenna is attached to a building and does not extend more than ten (10) feet above the roof line of the building or the antenna is ground mounted and does not exceed twenty (20) feet in height. Said antennas shall also be exempt from the permitting requirements of Section 10 of this Article. D. Installation of antennas which are accessory to Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition facilities located within a electric power sub-station, provided the antenna does not exceed the height of the poles or sub-station structure. Said antennas shall also be exempt from the permitting   requirements of Section 10 of this Article. E. Installation of antennas on concealment structures, except concealment towers, where the antenna is not visible from off the premises and the accessory cabinet has a volume of less than 40 cubic feet or is not visible from off the premises. F. Installation of antennas on buildings which comply with all of the following conditions:  1. The building is not located in a single family residential district. 2. The property is not subject to a special exception use, variance or other zoning restriction which exceeds the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance. 3. The antenna does not exceed the maximum building height in the zoning district nor extend more than twelve (12) feet above the roof line of the building. 4. The accessory cabinet does not exceed forty (40) cubic feet in volume or is located where it is not visible from off the premises. 90 Section 3.0. Availability of Suitable Existing Towers or Other Structures. No new towers, which are a special exception under the terms of this Article, shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the City that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant’s needs. Section 4.0. Principal Uses to be on Lots. All telecommunication towers and other supporting structures which are not an integral part of the principal use of the premises shall be the principal use of the premises on which they are located and shall be located on a separate lot. Because of the unique nature of these structures, said lots shall be exempt from the requirement to have principal frontage upon a public street, any minimum lot area or width requirements and any setback requirements of the zoning district where they are located. However, the lot for any telecommunications tower shall be large enough to accommodate the tower and  accessory structures of the applicant, as well as the accessory structures of at least one  additional co-locating service provider. Section 5.0. Setbacks. Towers shall be placed no closer than a distance equal to the height of the tower from any dwelling located in the FAR, RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5 or PDD zoning districts. However, because of the unique nature of telecommunications facilities, other required setbacks from property lines shall be determined on an individual basis by the Board of Adjustment as part of the special exception process. The Board shall consider the following factors when establishing minimum setbacks. A. The type of telecommunications facility  B. Relationship to other properties and buildings  C. Relationship to the public right-of-way  D. Size of the subject lot or parcel  E. Accessibility from public safety and other purposes  F. Other factors which effect the telecommunications facility, surrounding property and community at large. Section 6.0. Aesthetics and Lighting. A. Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish, or subject to any applicable FAA standards, be painted a neutral color so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness . B. The design of the buildings and accessory structures and uses shall, to the  91 extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the telecommunication facilities to the natural setting and built environment. C. If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and accessory uses and structures must be of a color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related facilities as visually unobtrusive as possible. D. Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the City may review the the available lighting alternatives and approve the design that would cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views. Lighting must be shielded or directed to the greatest extent possible so as to minimize the amount of light that falls onto nearby properties, particularly residences. E. No portion of any antenna array may extend beyond the property line. F. Accessory buildings, cabinets and structures shall not exceed sixteen (16) feet in height and shall be compatible with the surrounding area. G. The City may require a special design of any telecommunications facility where findings of particular sensitivity are made. Section 7.0. Federal Requirements. All towers and antennas must meet or exceed the current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers and antennas governed by this Article shall bring such towers and antennas into compliance with such standards and regulations within six (6) months of the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a more stringent compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling federal agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner’s expense. Section 8.0. Building Codes and Safety Standards  The owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable local building codes, the applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries Association, as amended, and all applicable codes adopted by the City. A. In addition to any other applicable standards and requirements, the following shall apply to all towers and telecommunications facilities:  92  1. Sufficient anti-climbing measures must be incorporated into each facility to reduce potential for trespass and injury. 2. Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not less than six (6) feet in height and shall also be equipped with an appropriate anti- climbing device. 3. At least ten (10) feet of horizontal clearance must exist between any antennas and any power lines, unless more clearance is required to meet Alabama Public Service Commission standards. 4. All towers and telecommunications facilities must be designed and/or sited so that they do not pose a potential hazard to nearby residences or surrounding properties or improvements. Any tower shall be designed and maintained to withstand without failure, the maximum forces expected from wind, hurricanes, and other natural occurrences, when the tower is fully loaded with antennas, transmitters, and other telecommunications facilities, and camouflaging. Initial demonstration of compliance with this requirement shall be provided via submission of a report to the Zoning Administrator prepared by a structural engineer licensed in the State of Alabama describing the tower structure, specifying the number and type of antennas it is designed to accommodate, providing the basis for the calculations done, and documenting the actual calculations performed. Proof of ongoing compliance shall be provided via submission to the Zoning Administrator at least every five years of an inspection report prepared by an Alabama registered structural engineer indicating the number and types of antennas and related telecommunications equipment actually present and indicating the structural integrity of the tower. Based on this report, the Zoning Administrator may require repair of, or if a serious problem exists, removal of the tower or any telecommunications facilities. B. If, upon inspection, the City concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the owner of a tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such tower into compliance with such standards. If the owner fails to bring such tower into compliance within said thirty (30) days, the governing authority may remove such tower at the owner’s expenses. Section 9.0. Radio Frequency Standards. All applicants shall comply with federal standards for a radio frequency emission. Within six (6) months after the commencement of any operations utilizing a tower, antenna or related telecommunications facilities, the applicant shall submit a project implementation report which provides cumulative field measurements of radio frequency emissions of all antennas installed at the subject site, and which compares the results with established federal standards. If, upon review, the City finds that the facility does not meet federal  93 standards, the City may require corrective action within a reasonable period of time, and if not corrected, may require removal of the telecommunications facilities. Any reasonable costs incurred by the City, including reasonable consulting costs to verify compliance with these requirements, shall be paid by the applicant. Section 10.0 Permits. Except as specifically exempted in section 2.0 of this Article, towers, antennas and telecommunications facilities are considered structures, requiring issuance of a building permit. In addition to any information required pursuant to Article III, Section 1.0 in connection with the issuance of a permit for a tower, antenna or telecommunications facility, the applicant shall, prior to a permit being issued, submit the following to the Zoning Administrator:  A. A maintenance/facility removal agreement, binding the applicant, the property owner (if other than the applicant) and the applicant’s and/or owner’s successors in interest, to properly maintain the exterior appearance of and ultimately the removal of the tower and telecommunications facilities in compliance with the provisions of this Article and any conditions of approval. B. An agreement to pay to the City all costs of monitoring compliance with, and enforcement of, the maintenance, removal, and/or disposal of any tower and telecommunications facilities, and to reimburse the City for all costs incurred to perform the work required of the applicant by this agreement that the applicant may fail to perform. Such agreement for reimbursement shall include all costs of collection and reasonable attorney’s fees. C. An agreement to allow the City to enter onto the property and undertake any maintenance or removal activities so long as:   1. The Zoning Administrator has provided the applicant written notice requesting the work needed to comply with this Article and providing the applicant at least forty-five (45) days to complete it; and a follow up notice of default specifying failure to comply within the time period permitted, and indicating the City’s intent to commence the required work within ten (10) days of the notice; and  2. The applicant has not filed an appeal pursuant to Article III, Section 1.32 within ten (10) working days of the notice of the City’s intent to commence the required work. If an appeal is filed, the City shall be authorized to enter the property and perform the necessary work if the appeal is dismissed or final action on it is taken in favor of the City. 3. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section to the contrary, the city shall not be required to provide the notice described herein if there is a significant risk to the public health and safety requiring immediate remedial measures. 94  D. In addition to any building permit fees and special exception application fees, the applicant shall pay a telecommunications facility permit fee in an amount that shall be set from time to time by City Council resolution. The fees for towers may be set at different levels than the fees set for antennas. The City Council resolution may further provide for a waiver of fees in the case of:  1. Construction of new towers with excess capacity, where the applicant commits in advance to allow co-location;  2. Co-location of antennas on existing towers and/or alternative tower structures;  3. Location of antennas on existing alternative tower structures;  4. Other conditions which the City believes will minimize the need for construction of new towers. E. A statement that the applicant agrees to allow for the potential co-location of additional telecommunications equipment by other providers on the applicant’s tower or within the same site location, subject to reasonable conditions. F. If the applicant seeks a permit for a tower or telecommunications facility on leased property, a copy of the lease agreement, memorandum of lease, or a verified written statement of the landlord indicating that the landlord is permitted to enter into leases with other telecommunications providers. Section 11.0 Application Requirements. A. Each applicant requesting a special exception under this article shall, in addition to submitting all information required in Article III, Section 2.2, submit the following information:  1. Scaled elevation view and other supporting drawings, calculations, and documentation, signed and sealed by appropriate registered professionals  2. Radio frequency coverage and tower height requirements  3. Other information deemed by the board as necessary to determine compliance with this Article. Each applicant for an antenna or tower shall submit an inventory of its existing towers that are either within the City or within one-quarter mile of the City’s boundaries, including specific information about the location, height, and design of each tower. The City may share such information with other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the City, provided however that the  95 City is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing or warranting that such sites are available or suitable. If the applicant owns the electric power or telephone poles in the area, it is not the intent of this Article to require a map showing all such poles, however, it is the intent of this Article for the applicant to submit a map showing the location and height of all such poles in the vicinity of the property which is the subject of the special exception use. B. Each applicant for an antenna or tower shall submit a copy of it’s one and five year plans for development of its telecommunications facilities in the city. Section 12.0. Factors Considered in Granting Special Exception Permits for Towers and Antennas. The City shall consider the following factors in determining whether to issue a special exception for a telecommunications facility:  A. Height of the proposed tower;  B. Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential district boundaries;  C. Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties; D. Surrounding topography; E. Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;  F. Design of the tower, with particular reference to design characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual obtrusiveness;  G. Proposed ingress and egress;  H. An evaluation of the applicant’s one and five year plans for development of its telecommunications facilities within the City, as well as those plans on file from other telecommunications providers;  I. Availability of suitable existing towers and other structures;  I. Any other information that the City deems reasonably necessary in connection with the review of the application. 96   Section 13.0. Removal of Abandoned Antennas and Towers  Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The City, in its sole discretion, may require an abandoned tower or antenna to be removed. The owner of such antenna or tower shall remove the same within ninety (90) days of receipt of notice from the City notifying the owner of such abandonment. If such antenna or tower is not removed within said ninety (90) days, the City may remove and dispose of such antenna or tower at the owner’s expense. If there are two or more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users cease using the tower. 97      ARTICLE IX. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS  Section 1.0. Parking requirements for specific uses. 1.1. Residential and Accessory Uses:  1. Single-family Dwelling 2 spaces  2. Manufactured Home  2 spaces  3. Two-family Dwelling  2 spaces per dwelling unit  4. Multifamily and Townhouse Dwelling  1.5 spaces per dwelling unit  5. Tourist Home, Bed & Breakfast  5 spaces plus one space per bedroom  6. Independent Living Facility  1 space per dwelling unit  7. Inn  5 spaces plus one space per bedroom  8. Group Home  2 spaces  9. Assisted Living Facility  0.65 spaces per dwelling unit  10. Private Swim & Tennis Clubs  1 space per 75 square feet of swimming pool water surface area and 2 spaces per tennis court   1.2. Public and Institutional Uses:  1. Auditorium, arena, stadium, theater, church, concert hall and other spectator facilities 0.25 spaces multiplied by the maximum seating capacity 2. College, university, vocational school 1 space per 50 square feet of classroom floor space  3. Hospital 1 space per 3 beds plus 1 space per 2  98 employees  4. Library 1 space per 800 square feet of floor area   5. Post Office plus one space per 2 employees  1 space per 300 square feet of floor area  6. Public and private schools:  Elementary & junior high schools   1 space per 8 auditorium seats or 2 spaces per classroom, whichever is greater  High schools 1 space per 6 students and one space per 3 employees   1.3. Commercial and Industrial Facilities. 1. Auto dealership 1 space per 1,000 square feet of floor area  2. Auto repair and service  2 spaces per repair bay  3. Auto parts sales  1 space per 150 square feet of retail sales floor area  4. Bank  1 space per 150 square feet of floor area  5. Barber and beauty shops  2.5 spaces per chair  6. Bowling alley  4 spaces per alley  7. Manual car wash  1 space per 200 square feet of floor area  8. Convenience store  1 space per 155 square feet of floor area  9. Dance or music studio  1 space per 100 square feet of floor area  10. Day care or nursery        One space designed for the safe and convenient loading and unloading of children per 10 children enrolled, based upon the maximum licensed capacity of the center, with a minimum of four spaces, plus one space for each employee on the maximum working shift. 99 11. Doctor-dentist office 1 space per 250 square feet of floor area  12. Funeral home  1 space per 50 square feet of floor area  13. Gasoline service station  1 space per pump and 2 spaces per repair bay  14. Golf course  7 spaces per golf hole  15. Golf, carpet  1 space per golf hole  16. Laundromat  0.5 spaces per machine  17. Industry  1 space per 3 employees on the maximum working shift  18. Lumber yard and home improvement center  1 space per 200 square feet of floor area and  1 space per 1,000 square feet of outdoor storage area  19. Motel or hotel  1 space per unit plus 1 space per 200 square feet of office floor area  20. Nursing home  1 space per 4 beds  21. Office building  1 space per 250 square feet of floor area  22. Restaurant, lounge bar, night club  1 space per 100 square feet of floor area  23. Restaurant, drive-up  1 space per 100 square feet of floor space  24. Retail establishments which require an unusually large showroom such as furniture, carpet, and large appliances    1 space per 800 square feet of floor area  25. Self-storage facility, limited-access  1 space per 30 storage units plus five spaces for the storage unit rental office, plus 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area devoted to sales or rental of other services or materials. 100 26. Self-storage facility multi-access Parking lanes as required in Article VII, Section 11.2 (N) (2), plus five spaces for the storage unit rental office, plus one space per 200 square feet of gross floor area devoted to sales or rental of other services or materials  27. Wholesale establishments 1.5 spaces per 2 employees  28. Veterinarian 1 space per 1,000 square feet of floor and kennel area  29. All other retail and service establishments 1 space per 200 square feet of floor area and 1 space per 500 square feet of permanent outdoor sales  Section 2.0. Rules in applying off-street parking standards. In applying the standards of Section 1.0 of this Article the following rules shall apply: A. A parking space shall be at least nine (9) feet wide and twenty (20) feet long except for the following situations: 1. A parking space in a parking structure, which does not serve a retail or service use, may be a minimum of eight and one-half (8 ½) feet wide and eighteen (18) feet long. 2. A maximum of ten (10) percent of all parking spaces in a parking structure which serve a retail or service use may be a minimum of eight and one-half (8 ½) feet wide and eighteen (18) feet long. B. The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned herein shall be the same as required for a use of a similar nature. C. In the case of mixed or joint uses, the parking spaces required shall equal the sum of the requirements of the various uses computed separately. D. These standards shall apply fully to all uses and buildings established after the effective date of this Ordinance. E. These standards shall apply to all additions, expansions, enlargements or reconstruction on the basis of the addition, expansion, enlargement or reconstruction only. F. Off-street parking areas and spaces servicing publicly owned recreation facilities, may have a surface other than bituminous pavement or concrete, subject to the approval of the City Engineer. 101  G. Parallel parking spaces shall contain a minimum rectangular area of nine (9) feet wide by twenty-two (22) feet long. 2.1. Location and design of off-street parking areas. A. In the FAR, RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, R-6, PRD-1 and PRD-2 districts, required off-street parking shall be provided on the same lot as the use to which the parking pertains. In other districts such parking may be provided either on the same lot or an adjacent lot, not in one of the above districts, when an increase in the number of spaces is required by a change of use or enlargement of the building served, or where such spaces are provided collectively or used jointly by two (2) or more buildings or establishments. B. In any case where the required parking spaces are not located on the same lot with the building or use served, or where such spaces are collectively or jointly provided and uses, a written agreement thereby assuring their retention for such purposes shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties concerned, approved as to form by the City Attorney and shall be filed with the application for a building permit, and shall be in full force and effect until released by a resolution of the city council. C. All parking areas shall be provided with safe entrance to and exit from the public thoroughfare. D. No off-street parking spaces, except for detached single family residential uses shall be entered or exited directly from a public street or alley. E. The use of any required parking space for the storage of any motor vehicle for sale, rent or repair or any other purpose other than the temporary parking of motor vehicles by patrons, is prohibited. Section 3.0. Loading area requirements. 3.1. Required loading space. On the same premises with every building or structure involving the receipt or dispatch of vehicles as a necessity for, or incidental to, the operation, or use of the building, there shall be provided and maintained adequate space for standing, loading and unloading services, in order to avoid interference with public use of streets or alleys, maintain necessary fire access lanes and to maintain vehicular circulation through the parking lot and ensure access to all required off-street parking spaces. 3.2. Loading area site arrangement. All loading areas shall be provided with safe entrance to and exit from the public thoroughfare. The entire loading area shall be paved and graded to properly drain. 102  3.3. Applicability. A. These requirements shall apply fully to all buildings erected after the effective date of this Ordinance and all enlargements, expansions, or reconstruction thereof. B. No building or part thereof in the B District, heretofore erected, shall hereafter be enlarged or expanded to the extent of fifty percent or more in floor area or ground area used unless off-street loading space is provided in accordance with the requirements of this Section. C. No building or part thereof in the M Districts heretofore erected shall hereafter be enlarged or expanded to provide an additional floor area of twenty-five (25) thousand square feet or more, or to provide a total gross floor area of forty (40) thousand square feet or more, unless off-street loading space is provided in accordance with the requirements of this Section. ARTICLE X. BUFFER AND LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS   Section 1.0. Purposes and Objectives. The purposes of this Article are to promote the quality of life in the City of Valley by promoting health and general welfare, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, and to avoid undue concentration of population. This Article has been made with reasonable consideration, among other things, to the character of the zoning districts and their peculiar suitability for particular uses and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the City. The objectives are achieved by requiring measures to make incompatible land uses more compatible by requiring a buffer between the uses and to provide shade within and enhance the appearance of parking and other vehicle maneuvering areas. Section 2.0. Landscaping Plan  A Landscaping Plan shall be required as part of every building permit application, re- zoning application, special exception application and variance application for new construction which must provide a buffer or which contains a parking or vehicle maneuvering area as defined in the Article, and shall contain the following information:  A. The boundaries of all tree areas and a description of the plant material therein. 103 B. The location and dimension of all areas proposed for buffers, landscaping and planting, including a description of the proposed plant materials. C. All dimensions and distances, property lines, easements, right-of-way and buffers. D. Existing and proposed buildings and structures, including signs, garbage and trash containers, utility and drainage structures. E. Existing and proposed buildings and structures on adjacent property affected by a required buffer. F. Bodies of water including water detention and retention areas. G. Driveways parking areas, existing and proposed parking spaces, access aisles and other vehicle maneuvering areas. H. Sufficient information and detail to clearly demonstrate that all applicable requirements and standards of this Article are fully satisfied. Section 3.0. Buffers. 3.1. Applicability. Buffer Regulations are set forth in each of the zoning district sections of Article VI. If proposed development activity requires a buffer, a Landscaping Plan, shall be submitted pursuant to the requirements of this Article. 3.2. Standards. In order to decrease incompatibility between neighboring land uses, the following standards shall apply to all buffers required by the Zoning Ordinance. A. The buffer shall provide a visually impervious barrier, uniformly dense at all heights from the ground, and a minimum of five (5) feet above grade throughout the entire length of the planting strip. The entire surface area of the buffer shall be planted as prescribed in this Section. Within one year after installation the buffer shall be at least six (6) feet above grade through- out the entire length of the planting. B. Privacy walls or fences, if incorporated in the buffer, shall be visually impervious, at least six (6) feet high, and shall be used in conjunction with landscaping materials which complement the purpose of the required buffer. Chain link fences or similar fencing shall not be used as a privacy fence. The location of the fence or wall within the buffer shall be approved by the City. C. All walls and fences located within buffer areas shall be finished on the exterior viewed from adjacent properties in the same type finish as the interior portion. All walls and fences shall be maintained in perpetuity by the owner. 104 D. Public utilities and storm drainage facilities may be constructed in a required buffer, provided the buffer is installed in compliance with the approved Landscape Plan. The City may require supplemental plant material in order to mitigate the effect of land disturbance in the buffer. E. The owner shall be responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all landscaping materials required by this Section. All plant material shall be tended and maintained in a healthy growing condition, replaced when dead and kept free of weeds, refuse and debris. Section 4.0. Landscaping for Parking and Vehicle Areas  4.1. Applicability. These regulations apply to all areas, (hereinafter referred to as parking areas), which are open to the general public or visible from the public right-of-way, and used for off-street parking or loading, vehicular storage, display, maneuvering, vehicle washing, and the dispensing of motor fuels. All such areas with less than five (5) vehicle spaces are exempt from the provisions of this Section. This Section shall apply to new parking areas or enlargement of existing parking areas by ten (10) percent or more, for all special exception uses, except home occupations, and for permitted uses in the R-6, Institution, Office, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 Districts. If proposed development activity requires the installation of landscaping in parking areas, a Landscaping Plan shall be submitted pursuant to the requirements of this Article. 4.2. Design Standards. A. Interior Parking Areas 1. Each parking area shall have interior landscaping covering not less than five (5) percent of the total parking area. Such landscaping shall be in addition to all planting within six (6) feet of a building. 2. The primary landscaping materials used in parking areas shall be shade trees. Shrubs and other planting materials may be used to compliment the shade tree planting but shall not be the sole component of the landscaping. 3. The interior dimensions of any planting area shall be sufficient to protect all landscaping materials planted therein. B. Peripheral Parking Area Landscaping Adjacent to Right-of-Way 1. A landscaped strip at least ten (10) feet wide, which shall not include a sidewalk or trail, shall be located between the parking area and the public right-of-way, except where driveways are located. Required landscaping and trees may be planted within the adjacent public street right-of-way, if shown on the approved Landscaping Plan and approved by all applicable governments and utilities. 2. Shrubs shall be evergreen and a minimum of thirty (30) inches high at installation, with a minimum height of three (3) feet within one growing season. Required shrubbery shall be planted in double staggered rows  105 within the landscaped strip. 3. At least one tree for every thirty (30) linear feet or portion thereof shall be planted in the landscaped strip, however, this shall not be construed as requiring the planting of trees on thirty (30) foot centers. 4. Landscaping near parking areas shall not obstruct the driver’s view of the right-of-way at driveways and intersections, where plant height shall be limited to thirty (30) inches to provide vision clearance triangles. 5. Vision clearance triangle setbacks shall be ten (10) feet in parking areas, thirty (30) feet at intersections and as required by the Alabama Department of transportation. Trees are permitted but branches shall be trimmed and maintained to a minimum height of eight (8) feet above finished grade. C. Peripheral Parking Area Landscaping Adjacent to Private Property. 1. A landscaped strip at least five (5) feet wide shall be located the entire length between the parking area and abutting property lines, except where driveways are located. 2. At least one tree for every thirty (30) feet or portion thereof shall be planted in the landscaped strip, however, this shall not be constructed as requiring the planting of trees on thirty (30) foot centers. D. Maintenance The owner shall be responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all landscaping materials, and barriers required by this Section. All plant material shall be tended and maintained in a healthy growing condition, replaced when dead and kept free of weeds, refuse and debris. 4.3. Plant Material Standards. All plant materials shall be sufficient size to accomplish the intent of this article. Shade trees shall be at least two and one-half inch caliper in size at the time of planting. Section 5.0. Enforcement. A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued until the premises complies with the Landscaping Plan approved for the premises. 106 ARTICLE XI. LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS    Section 1.0. Interpretation and purpose. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of the Ordinance shall be considered minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the community. Where other ordinances or regulations heretofore adopted, or which may be adopted hereafter impose greater restrictions than those specified herein, compliance with such other ordinances or regulations is mandatory. Section 2.0. Severability clause. If any section, subsection, clause, provision, or portion of this Ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section, subsection, clause, provision, or portion of this Ordinance which is not in and of itself invalid or unconstitutional. Section 3.0. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its adoption, and publication according to law. Adopted this the 28 th . Day of June, 1999. 107  AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE 2005-12   BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Valley, Alabama:  ORDINANCE 99-07, Valley Zoning Ordinance, as may have been previously amended, is hereby further amended to add, revise or delete the following:  Temporary Emergency Relief  The Zoning Administrator is hereby granted authority to provide immediate and temporary relief to applicants requesting such relief, by issuing permits authorizing installation of temporary manufactured homes on applicant’s property under the following conditions:  • Such permit shall be temporary and not exceed six (6) months from date of issuance, or until a replacement home has been issued a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. • Such permit shall not be transferable. • Prior to issuance of such permit, the Zoning Administrator shall, in his discretion, be reasonably satisfied that the applicant’s requested relief is necessary, and the need therefore was proximately caused by damage resulting from fire or natural disasters. • Said temporary manufactured home shall be used exclusively as the temporary domicile of the household affected by the fire or natural disasters only during the time required to reconstruct or replace the original dwelling. • Once the replacement home has been constructed and occupied, the temporary manufactured home shall be permanently removed from the property not more than thirty (30) days from the date that the Certificate of Occupancy was issued for the replacement home. • The t e m p o r a r y manufactured home shall comply with all applicable minimum standards for dwellings that may be prescribed by the subject zoning district. Speculative Rezoning  The City of Valley discourages the use of rezoning as a strategy to increase speculative land value, where the applicant has no actual or immediate intent to develop in accordance with the  108 rezoning. Rezoning is intended to grant the applicant an opportunity to exercise appropriate alternative development options in situations where development in compliance with existing zoning is not possible or practicable, as long as the proposed uses are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and the character of the surrounding area. The granting of this privilege by the City carries with it a good faith expectation that the proposed development will occur in a  timely and deliberate manner. Therefore, when the City Council grants approval of a rezoning, the applicant should acquire a zoning permit or final plat approval (whichever is applicable) and commence construction activities in compliance with that permit or approval within one (1) year of the date upon which the rezoning is approved. If such actions have not been taken within the specified time frame, the Planning Commission may initiate actions to further rezone the subject property and/or reinstate the original zoning classification. Temporary Land Uses  Temporary uses, as set forth below, are declared to possess characteristics which require certain controls in order to ensure compatibility with other uses in the districts within which they are proposed for location. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue a Temporary Certificate of Zoning Compliance for any of the following temporary uses. • Carnival, circus or fair in any commercial district, for a period not to exceed twenty-one (21) days, subject to the approval of the City Council. • Religious meetings in a tent or other temporary structure in any district, for a period not to exceed twenty-one (21) days. • Open lot sale of Christmas Trees in any district for a period not to exceed Forty-five (45) days. • Real estate sales office in any district, for a period not to exceed one (1) year, provided that such office is placed on the property to which it is appurtenant. • Carnivals, fairs or special events sponsored or cosponsored by the City of Valley or Chambers County Board of Education. • Other temporary uses are subject to the approval of the City Council. • All Temporary Certificates of Zoning Compliance may be renewed, provided that it is determined that said use is clearly of a temporary nature, will cause no traffic congestion, and would not create a nuisance to surrounding uses. Adopted and Approved September of 2005. 109 AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE 2006-13   BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Valley, Alabama as follows:  ORDINANCE 99-07, as may have been previously amended, is hereby further amended to allow Manufactured Homes to be placed in the rear yards of single family lots within the city limits on a temporary basis for the purpose of taking care of a family member who needs special supervision and attention. An application form with a strict set of rules will be required of all applicants. The applicants must apply to the Board of Adjustments for approval as a special exception in residential and FAR (Forestry, Agricultural & Recreation) districts. Rules and Regulations to Be Eligible For A Temporary Hardship Housing Permit to Place A Manufactured Home On An Existing Occupied Lot Within The City Limits of Valley, Alabama  1. Applicant must attach a letter to the application from a Medical Doctor stating the reasons why the person or persons who will be living in the Temporary Emergency Manufactured Home needs special attention. 2. Applicant shall attach a site layout of the property showing the location of the Temporary Home in relation to property lines and other buildings or structures as follows: A. The length in feet of all property lines. B. The outline o f a l l existing buildings or structures and any proposed buildings, structures or building additions on the property in their proper locations. C. The shortest distance in feet from all property lines to the closest point on any ex i s t in g building, accessory structure or new construction on the property. D. The maximum height in feet of any proposed new structure or addition. E. The location of any existing or proposed street access or curb cut. F. The location of any known easements on the property other than utility blanket easements. 3. The permit is only good for six months and must be renewed on or before it expires. 4. Temporary home must have a separate telephone number from the main residence. This is for emergency 911 purposes. 5. The 911 address of the temporary home shall be the same as the main  110 residence address but with a letter added (A, B, C). 6. Temporary Manufactured Home must be used exclusively for the person or persons listed on the application. An overnight caregiver is permissible, but not on a continuous basis. 7. The property owner shall be the permanent caregiver (Such as a family member or a close companion). 8. The permit is non-transferable and cannot be used for adding or changing occupants of the Temporary Home. 9. The Manufactured Home must be removed from the premises within sixty days (60 days) after the discontinued use for which the permit was issued. 10. Manufactured Home cannot exceed one thousand Square Feet (1000 Sq. Ft.). 11. All utilities will be provided by the applicant and must meet the requirements and approval of the utility companies (Water, Sanitary Sewer, Electricity and Gas) and in cases where septic tanks are required it must be approved by the Chambers County Health Department. 12. Placement of the Temporary Manufactured Home will comply with the setback requirements of an accessory structure or building. In all other respects, Ordinance 99-07 as may have been previously amended shall remain the same. ADOPTED AND APPROVED THIS THE 22 ND . OF MAY, 2006.