
 

1- 1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPREHENSIVE   ZONING   ORDINANCE 

 

 

OF 
 

 

AUGUSTA, GEORGIA  
 

Editorial revision of the Ordinance adopted March 25, 1963, incorporating changes made 

necessary by the Home Rule Provision of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983, and 

the consolidation of the City of Augusta and Richmond County, and other amendments between 

November 15, 1983 and January 3, 2006 and September 7, 2011  

 

Amended April 2020 

Amended November 2019 

Amended August 2018 

Amended March 2018 

Amended February 2018 

Amended December 2017 

Amended August 2017 

Amended June 2017 

March 2017 

Amended January 2017 

Amended July 2016 

Amended March 2016 

Amended October 2015 

Amended August 2015 

Amended July 2015 

Amended June 2015 

Amended January 2015 

Amended November 2014 

Amended May 2014 

Amended September 2013 



 

1- 2 

AN ORDINANCE BY THE AUGUSTA COMMISSION TO ADOPT A COMPREHENSIVE 

ZONING PLAN, MAPS AND LAND USE REGULATIONS; TO REPEAL CONFLICTING 

ORDINANCES AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES: 

 

 WHEREAS, the Augusta Commission, was authorized by the Home Rule Provision of 

the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983 to:  Establish planning commissions; provide for 

the preparation and amendment of overall plans for the orderly growth and development of 

municipalities and counties; provide for the regulation of structures on mapped streets, public 

building sites, and public open spaces; repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes; and 

 

 WHEREAS, the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission, created and organized under 

the terms of the aforementioned Home Rule Provision, has made a study and analysis of the 

areas of Augusta, Georgia and the said study and analysis now are complete and a 

Comprehensive Zoning Plan consisting of the maps and regulations described herein for the 

purposes  described in the title of this Ordinance are now ready for adoption; and 

  

WHEREAS, the Commission has held a public hearing on the proposed Comprehensive 

Zoning Plan after giving more than fifteen (15) days notice  of the time and place of such hearing 

by publication in the Augusta  Chronicle as provided by the official code of Georgia.  

  

THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by Augusta Commission as follows:  



 

1- 3 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

SECTION

 

 CHAPTER    

PAGE 

 

1 GENERAL PURPOSE  1-1 

2 GENERAL DEFINITIONS  2-1 

 GENERAL PROVISIONS  

3 

3-A 

Area and Setback Requirements 

Outdoor/Street Lighting 

3-1 

   3A-1 

  3-B Open Space/Recreation Area    3B-1 

4 Off-Street Parking and Loading 4-1 

5 Nonconforming Uses 5-1 

 USE DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  

6 District Definitions 6-1 

 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION  

7 A (Agricultural) Zone 7-1 

 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  

8 R-1 (One-Family Residential) Zone 8-1 

9 R-1A (One-Family Residential) Zone 9-1 

10 R-1B (One-Family Residential) Zone 10-1 

11 R-1C (One-Family Residential) Zone 11-1 

12 R-1D (One-Family Residential) Zone 12-1 

13 R-1E (One-Family Residential) Zone 13-1 

14 R-MH (Manufactured Home Residential) Zone 14-1 

15 R-2 (Two-family Residential) Zone 15-1 

16 R-3A (Multiple-Family Residential) Zone 16-1 

17 R-3B (Multiple-Family Residential) Zone 17-1 

18 R-3C (Multiple-Family Residential) Zone 18-1 

19 PUD (Planned Unit Development) Zone 19-1 

   

20 PROFESSIONAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 P-1 (Professional) Zone  

 

20-1 

 BUSINESS DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  

21 B-1 (Neighborhood Business) Zone 21-1 

22 

 

B-2 (General Business) Zone 22-1 

 



 

1- 4 

    TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

   SECTION            CHAPTER  

                         PAGE 

 

 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  

23 LI (Light Industry) Zone 23-1 

24 HI (Heavy Industry) Zone 24-1 

 SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS  

25 HPA (Historic Preservation Area) Zone    (DELETED) 25-1 

    25-A   PDR (Planned Development Riverfront) Zone 25A-1 

    25-B SCA (Special Sign Control Area) Zone  (DELETED) 25B-1 

        25-C River Watch Parkway   (DELETED) 25C-1 

    25-D 

        25-E        

Savannah River Corridor Protection District 

Special District Classifications 

25D-1 

     25E-1 

   25-F Professional Office Park District 25-F-1 

        25-G MXUD (Mixed Use Development District) 25-G-1 

        26 Special Exceptions in Any Zone 

 

OTHER REGULATED USES 

26-1 

27 Manufactured Home Regulations 27-1 

28 Airport Regulations  28-1 

    28-A 

    28-B 

    28-C 

Telecommunication Facilities 

Signs 

Adult Entertainment 

28A-1 

28B-1 

28C-1 

    28-D 

   28-E 

  28-F 

29 

Conservation Subdivisions 

Recreational Vehicle Parks 

Personal Care Homes 

Exceptions and Modifications  

 28D-1 

28E-1 

28F-1 

29-1 

30 Building Permits and Site Plans 30-1 

31 Certificate of Occupancy 31-1 

32 Enforcement and Penalties 32-1 

33 Board of Zoning Appeals 33-1 

34 Location and Maintenance of Zoning Map 34-1 

35 Amendments to the Ordinance 35-1 

36 Effective Date 36-1 

37 Severance Clause 37-1 

 



 

1- 5 

 

GENERAL PURPOSE 
 

SECTION 1 
 

 

For the purpose of promoting health, safety, morals and the general welfare of the people of 

Augusta including, among other things, present conditions and the future growth of Augusta with 

due regard to its relations to neighboring territory and to guide and accomplish coordinated, 

adjusted, and harmonious development which will, in accordance with present and future needs, 

best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare as well as 

efficiency and economy in the process of development, including, among other things, adequate 

provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for 

light and air, the   promotion of good civic design and arrangement, wise and efficient 

expenditure of funds, and the adequate provisions of public utilities and other public 

requirements as will tend to facilitate economical and adequate provisions for transportation, 

roads, soil conservation, water supply, drainage, education, sanitation, recreation, conservation, 

and development of the State's natural resources, fostering the State's agriculture and other 

industries, and protecting the State's food supply, for the purpose of lessening traffic and other 

hazards to life, limb, and health in the thickly populated areas, and the civil defense of the 

population.  

 



 

1- 6 

1-6




 

2- 1 

GENERAL DEFINITIONS 
 

 SECTION 2 
 

 

Certain words and terms are defined as follows:  Words used in the present tense include the 

future; words in the singular number include the plural; and words in the plural number include 

the singular.  The word "building" includes the word "structure"; and the word "shall" is 

mandatory and not directory.  The term "Board of Zoning Appeals" shall mean the Augusta, 

Georgia Board of Zoning Appeals. The term "Planning Commission" means the Augusta, 

Georgia Planning Commission as provided for in Title 1 and Title 8 of the Augusta, Georgia 

County Code by virtue of the Home Rule Provision of the constitution of the State of Georgia of 

1983.  “Commission” means the Augusta Commission.  "Roads" include streets, avenues, 

boulevards, roads, highways, lanes, circles, drives, freeways, viaducts, alleys, and other public 

ways.  "Subdivision" means the division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two or more lots, 

plats, sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or of 

building development purposes other than agricultural.  It includes re-subdivision, and when 

appropriate to the content, relates to the process of subdividing or to territory subdivided. 

 

“ACCESSORY BUILDING" shall mean a subordinate building not more than one (1) story 

and no more than 18 feet in height as measured in Section 2: “Building Height.” The accessory 

structure shall not be taller than the primary structure when viewed from the street. The use of 

such a building is incidental to that of the main building on the same lot, or of which it forms an 

integral part of the same lot main building. 

 

Accessory buildings shall not be designed and used for residential purposes. They shall not 

contain facilities for sleeping, bathing or cooking.  Accessory buildings may not be used to 

conduct home occupations or serve as home offices. In no case may an accessory building have a 

separate electrical service. 

 

"ACCESSORY USE" shall mean the use customarily incidental and accessory to the principal 

use of a building located upon the same building site as the accessory use. 

 

"ADULT DAY CARE FACILITY" shall mean any place operated by a person, society, 

agency, corporation, institution or group wherein are received for pay for group care, for fewer 

than 24 hours per day of three (3) or more elderly or disabled persons that are over 17 years of 

age. 

 

"AIRPORT" shall mean Bush Field and Daniel Field. 

 

"AIRPORT HAZARD"  shall mean any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the 

airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at the airport or is otherwise 

hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft. 

 

“AMPLIFIED ENTERTAINMENT AND/OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT” shall mean any 

type of music or other entertainment delivered through and by an electronic system. Televisions 

operating with no amplification other than their internal speakers and background music systems 

operated at a low volume and not intended for entertainment shall not be deemed amplified 

entertainment. 



 

2- 2 

"APARTMENT" shall mean a room, or suite of one or more rooms, which is designed or 

intended for occupancy by, or which is occupied by, one family doing its own cooking therein or 

by one person doing his or her own cooking therein. 

 

"APARTMENT HOUSE" shall mean any building or portion thereof which contains three or 

more apartments, the occupants of any two or more   which use any entrance or hall in common, 

and all living units of which are intended to be maintained under single ownership.  

 

"AUTOMOBILE SALES" or "STORAGE YARDS” or "LOTS" shall mean an open premise 

used for storage or sale of complete and operable automobiles. 

  

"AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD" or "AUTOMOBILE USED PARTS LOT"  shall 

mean any place where one or more vehicles not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored 

in the open or in any building or structure used principally for wrecking and storage of 

automobiles not in running condition or automobile parts. 

 

“BACKGROUND MUSIC OR SOUND” shall mean amplified music or amplified sound that 

cannot be heard or felt outside the structure in which it is played except for brief periods when 

customers enter or exit the establishment and that is played within the structure at low volume. 
 

"BASEMENT" shall mean a room or story partly underground and having at least one-half of 

its height above the average level of the adjoining ground.  A basement shall be counted as a 

half-story if used for dwelling or business purposes. 

 

“BREEZEWAY” “BREEZEWAY” shall mean the roofed open-passage connecting the main 

building and an accessory building.  Breezeways shall be not less than five (5) feet in width and 

not exceed fifteen (15) feet in length.   

 

“BREWERY” shall mean a large or industrial scale manufacturer of alcoholic malt beverages 

for the purpose of wholesale distribution. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. 

 

“BREWPUB” shall mean a restaurant that produces a limited quantity of an alcoholic malt 

beverage for on-site consumption with incidental sales to the public as carryout and is consistent 

with Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses for eating 

establishments. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. 

 

"BUFFER" shall mean that portion of a lot, tract, or parcel set aside for open space and visual 

screening purposes, pursuant to applicable provisions of this Ordinance, to separate different use 

districts, or to separate uses on one property from uses on another property of the same use 

district or different use districts. 

 

"BUILDING" shall mean a structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the 

shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels. When separated without interior 

accessible connections, each portion of such building shall be deemed a separate building. 

 

"BUILDING HEIGHT" shall mean the vertical distance measured from the level of the 

established grade at the middle of the front of the building, to the highest point of a flat roof; to 

the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for a 

gable, hip, or gambrel roof. 



 

2- 3 

 

"BUILDING LINE" shall mean a line between which line and any street line of a district, lot, 

tract, or parcel of land, no building or part of a building may be erected, altered, or maintained. 

 

"BUILDING, MAIN" "MAIN BUILDING" shall mean a building in which is conducted the 

principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In any residential district any dwelling shall be 

deemed to be a main building on the lot upon which the same is situated. Main building when 

used with the reference to ground coverage shall mean the dimension of the dwelling including 

porches and garages.  Accessory buildings are excluded. 

 

"BUILDING PERMIT" shall mean a written permit issued by the Chief Building Official of 

Augusta, Georgia 

 

"BUILDING LINE SETBACK" shall mean the distance between the building line and the 

street line in a district, lot, tract, or parcel of land. 

 

“CAFÉ” shall mean a restaurant having a seating capacity of less than 40 persons and conducted 

consistent with Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses 

for eating establishments. 

 

"CELLAR" shall mean a room or story having more than one-half of it’s height below the 

average level of the adjoining ground.  A cellar shall not be counted as a story for purposes of 

measured height. 

 

"CHURCH" shall mean buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, 

association, person, or persons for a social, educational, religious or recreational purpose, but not 

primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business. 

 

"CLUB" shall mean buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, 

person, or persons for a social, educational, religious or recreational purpose, but not primarily 

for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business. 

 

"COMMISSION" shall mean the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission. DELETE 

 

“CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT”   may be permitted in Zones where such uses are deemed 

essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare and are in harmony with the various 

elements or objectives of the Master Plan/Planning Document in effect. All applications for a 

Conditional Use Permit shall be accompanied by a scaled preliminary development plan that 

shows the location of all buildings associated with the proposed use and the number of stories 

contained in each building.  The preliminary development plan must also show the location of all 

floor plans, curb cuts, driving lanes, parking areas, and the location of all walls, fences and 

screen plantings that exist or are planned. 

 

Any use, established as a result of a Conditional Use Permit must be initiated within six (6) 

months of the granting, or it shall no longer be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the 

issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by 

other reasonable proof of the establishment of vested rights.  If a Conditional Use Permit is 

granted and the use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the 

Conditional Use Permit shall no longer be valid.   



 

2- 4 

 

"CONDOMINIUM" shall mean an individual ownership unit in a multifamily structure, 

combined with joint ownership of common areas of the building and grounds, in accordance with 

all applicable provisions of the Apartment Ownership Act of 1963, as amended (Georgia Laws, 

1963). 

 

"CONGREGATE PERSONAL CARE HOME" shall mean a building occupied by the 

property owners, or by a person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied 

by sixteen or more unrelated individuals who reside there and receive care and/or supervision 

from the property owners or persons in their employment.  

 

"CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION – shall mean a subdivision where a large percentage of 

the overall acreage of the tract is permanently protected as greenspace and the remainder is 

divided into lots. 

 

"DAY CARE CENTER" shall mean any place operated by a person, society, agency, 

corporation, institution or group wherein are received for pay for group care, for fewer than 24 

hours per day without transfer of legal custody 19 or more children under 18 years of age. The 

term shall not include a private school which provides kindergarten through grade 12 education 

and provides both before and after school care for its students as an auxiliary service during the 

regular school year only. 

 

"DEPENDENT TRAVEL UNIT" shall mean a Travel Unit other than a self-contained Travel 

Unit.  

 

“DISTILLERY” shall mean a large or industrial scale manufacturer of alcoholic distilled spirits  

for the purpose of wholesale distribution. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer. 

 

“DISTRIBUTOR” – shall mean the manufacturer’s direct point of contact for prospective 

buyers of certain products. 

 

DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS – drinking establishments (nightclubs) shall be a building that 

has a seating capacity of at least 40 persons consistent with Section 6-2-51 of the Augusta Georgia 

Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses. 

 

“DUMPSTER” – a container having a minimum capacity of two cubic yards and that has a hinged 

mechanism that permits it to be raised and dumped into a sanitation vehicle and is used for 

temporary storage of rubbish, trash and other similar discarded materials, pending collection. (See 

also “Recyclable Material Bins”) 

 

“DWELLING OR DWELLING UNIT” shall mean any building, or portion thereof, which is 

designed or used exclusively for the purposes of living, sleeping, cooking and sanitation by one 

(1) family as described in this section. 

 

"DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY" OR "ONE-FAMILY DWELLING" shall mean a building 

containing but one housekeeping unit, and designed and used to house not more than one family 

in a permanent manner, which may include not more than two boarders or lodgers. 

 



 

2- 5 

"DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY" OR  "TWO-FAMILY DWELLING" shall mean a building 

containing not more than two housekeeping units, and designed or used to house not more than 

two families, living independently of each other, each of which may include no more than two 

lodgers or boarders. 

 

"DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY" OR "MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING" shall mean a 

building designed for, or portion of a building having accommodations for, three or more 

families being independent of each other, and each having its own kitchen and bath facilities.  

This term includes premises occupied more or less permanently for residential purposes in which 

the rooms are occupied in apartments, suites, or groups such as apartment units, tenement 

houses, flats, apartment hotels, bachelor apartments, studio apartments, kitchenette apartments, 

and all other dwellings similarly occupied.  

 

EASEMENT, FLAGPOLE LOT(s): Lots shall provide a minimum sixty (60) foot right-of-way 

and a minimum roadway or pavement width of twenty-four (24) feet, or meet the minor-

residential street specifications outlined in the most recent edition of Augusta Engineering Street 

and Road Design Technical Manual, whichever is greater. 

 

"EXPRESSWAY" shall mean a divided highway for through traffic with full or partial control 

of access and generally with grade separations at intersections.  It contains two lanes or more for 

traffic going in opposing directions and divided by a median strip and designed so as to protect 

the opposing flows of traffic and thus increase the safety and practical capacity of the road for 

regional and inter-regional traffic. 

 

"FAMILY" shall mean a group of one or two persons, or parents with their direct descendants 

and adopted children (and including the domestic employees thereof), together with not more 

than two persons not so related, living together in a room or rooms comprising a single 

housekeeping unit. Family does not include a group occupying a club, sorority, or fraternity 

house. 

 

"FAMILY DAY CARE HOME" shall mean a private residence operated by any person who 

receives therein for pay for supervision and care fewer than 24 hours a day, without transfer of 

legal custody, three but not more than six children under 18 years of age who are not related to 

such persons and whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same private residence. 

 

"FAMILY PERSONAL CARE HOME" shall mean a building occupied by the property 

owners, or by a person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied by three 

but not more than six unrelated individuals who reside there and receive care and/or supervision 

from the property owners or persons in their employment. 

 

"FILLING STATION" shall mean any building or premises used solely for storing, dispensing, 

servicing, sale, or offering for sale, at retail of any automobile fuels and lubricants and/or 

automobile accessories, but not including major automobile repairing. 

 

"FLEA MARKET" shall mean property which the owner rents, lends or leases the premises to 

persons for use as a marketplace to barter, exchange, or sell secondhand goods.  Yard sales at 

residences are not flea markets, and craft shows shall not constitute flea markets. 

 



 

2- 6 

"FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION" shall mean buildings and facilities owned or operated by 

a corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, religious or recreational 

purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a 

business. 

 

"FRONTAGE" shall mean the distance for which property abuts one side of a street, road, 

highway, or other public way measured along the dividing line between the property and such 

road or highway or other public way. 

 

"FRONTAGE ROADWAY" or "ACCESS STREET" shall mean a roadway contiguous to 

and generally paralleling an interstate highway, expressway, major street or highway, or through 

street or highway and designed so as to intercept, collect and distribute traffic desiring to cross, 

enter, or leave such facility and to furnish access to property which would otherwise be isolated 

as a result of controlled access features peculiar to topographic conditions. 

 

"FUNERAL HOME" shall mean a building or part thereof used for human funeral services.  

Such building may contain space and facilities for: 

a) embalming and the performance of other services used in preparation of the dead 

for burial; 

b) the performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures; 

c) the storage of caskets, funeral urns, and other related funeral supplies; and  

d) the storage of funeral vehicles and the allowance of cremation facilities for use by 

the individual funeral home within which such cremation facilities would be 

located. When a funeral home is permitted, a funeral chapel shall also be 

permitted. 

 

"GARAGE" shall mean a building used for the storage or housing of motor driven vehicles. 

 

"GARAGE, PRIVATE" OR "PRIVATE GARAGE" shall mean a garage intended for, and 

owned or used by, the members of a family resident upon the premises, provided that not more 

than one-half of the garage space may be rented for private vehicles owned or used by persons 

not residing on the premises, except that all the space in a garage of one- or two-car capacity 

may be so rented.  Such a garage shall not include those used by more than one (1) commercial 

vehicle per family resident on the premises, and no such commercial vehicle shall exceed two (2) 

ton capacity, nor shall such garage provide for the repair or equipping of such vehicles. 

 

"GARAGE, SERVICE" shall mean a garage used for repair of vehicles. 

 

"GARAGE, STORAGE" shall mean a garage used primarily for storage of vehicles. 

 

"GOVERNING BODY" shall mean the Augusta Commission. 

 

"GREENSPACE" shall mean an area permanently protected for the common use of the general 

public or for the common use of the residents of a development, and in its natural state or 

developed only to an extent conforming to these regulations. 

 

"GROUP DAY CARE HOME" shall mean any place operated by a person, society, agency, 

corporation, institution or group wherein are received for pay not less than seven nor more than 

18 children under 18 years of age for care and supervision less than 24 hours a day. 



 

2- 7 

 

"GROUP PERSONAL CARE HOME" shall mean a building occupied by the property 

owners, or by a person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied by seven 

but not more than fifteen unrelated individuals who reside there and receive care and/or 

supervision from the property owners or persons in their employment.  

 

"GUEST ROOM" shall mean a room which is designed or intended for occupancy by, or which 

is occupied by, one or more guests, but in which no provision is made for cooking, and not 

including dormitories for sleeping purposes. 

 

"HOME OCCUPATION" shall mean an activity carried out for gain by a resident conducted 

as an accessory use in the resident's dwelling unit. 

 

"HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION" shall mean an incorporated, nonprofit organization 

operating under recorded land agreements through which (a) each lot owner in a planned unit or 

other described land area is automatically a member, and (b) each lot is automatically subject to 

a charge for a proportionate share of the expenses for the organization's activities, such as 

maintenance of common property. 

 

"HOSPITAL" shall mean an institution providing health services primarily for human in-

patient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including related facilities such as 

laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, central services facilities, and staff offices 

that are an integral part of the facilities. 

 

"HOTEL" shall mean any building containing sleeping rooms for the more or less temporary 

occupancy of individuals who are lodged, with or without meals, where guest rooms are accessed 

through a central area or main lobby, and where the structure exceeds two stories in height. 

 

"HOTEL - EXTENDED STAY" shall mean a building containing guest rooms rented for 

temporary lodging where guest rooms are accessed through a central area or main lobby and 

where half or more than half of the rooms have kitchenettes or some kitchen facilities. 

 

"HOTEL, APARTMENT" shall mean any building which satisfies both the definition of a 

multiple-dwelling house and that of a hotel as defined by this section. 

 

"INERT FILL AREA" shall mean a disposal facility accepting only materials limited to earth, 

earth-like products, concrete, cured asphalt rock, bricks, yard trimmings, stumps, limbs, and 

leaves.  This definition excludes industrial and demolition waste not specifically listed above.  

For the purpose of this ordinance, filling of land which is not specifically related to a subdivision 

development plan or a site plan which has been filed with the Planning and Development 

Department shall be defined as an inert fill area if the volume of fill is expected to exceed 5,000 

cubic yards. 

 

"INTERSTATE HIGHWAY" shall mean a divided highway with limited access designed 

primarily for interstate travel.  It is an integral part of a nationwide highway network connecting 

principal cities, with four or more traffic lanes separated by a median strip to provide maximum 

safety for motorists. 

 



 

2- 8 

"JUNKYARD" shall mean any place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought, 

sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled, or handled; including automobile 

wrecking yards, automobile used parts lots, used lumber yards, salvaged building materials, 

salvaged household appliances, or other types of machinery; but excluding establishments for the 

sale, purchase, or storage of used automobiles in running condition, used furniture, or salvaged 

materials used as part of a manufacturing process on the same site. 

 

"LAND" or "TERRITORY SUBDIVISION" shall mean a parcel or tract of land, the 

dimensions of which are shown on a map and filed with the Clerk of the Superior Court of 

Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia, as of the date of the adoption of this Ordinance. 

 

"LANDING AREA" shall mean the area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff, or taxiing 

of aircraft. 

 

"LANE" shall mean a public thoroughfare which ordinarily affords only a secondary means of 

access to abutting property and which is not more than twenty (20) feet wide. 

 

“LIQUOR STORE” shall mean a retail outlet for the purpose of the sale of alcoholic beverages 

to include beer, wine and spirits.  

 

"LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENTERPRISES" shall mean the Augusta Commission 

governmental functions such as schools, municipal or county office buildings, playgrounds, 

parks, reservations, public transit terminals, public golf courses, fire stations, police stations and 

substations, and similar institutional uses. 

 

“LODGING OR “BOARDING HOUSE” - establishments providing temporary or longer-term 

accommodations, for compensation, at no less than thirty (30) days for 4 or more persons which, 

for the period of occupancy, may serve as a principal residence. These establishments also may 

provide complementary services, such as housekeeping, meals, and laundry services. No health 

related services may be provided, including but not limited to, dispensing of medications. The 

owner or an employee of the owner (resident manager) must reside on site and are counted 

toward the maximum occupancy. Such operations are allowed by Special Exception approval 

only in the R-3A, R-3B and R-3C Zones under defined performance standards. They are allowed 

by right in the B-1 and B-2 Zones under defined performance standards. 

 

"LOT" or "LOT PLAT" shall mean a lot or a parcel of land occupied, or intended to be 

occupied by, a principal building or use and any accessory building and uses customarily 

incidental to it, and including open spaces not less in extent than those required in connection 

therewith by the Ordinance.   For the purpose of this Ordinance, the terms lot, parcel, and tract 

are used synonymously.  

 

"LOT, CORNER" "CORNER LOT" shall mean a lot which abuts on two or more streets 

and/or roads at their intersection or upon a curved street, provided that the two sides of the lot, or 

the tangents to the curve of the street line at its starting points at or within the side lines of the 

lot, intersects to form an interior angle of not more than 135 degrees. 

 

"LOT DEPTH" shall mean the distance between front and rear lot lines.   If two (2) opposite 

sides of said lot are not parallel, the depth shall be deemed to be the mean distance between the 

front and rear lot lines. 



 

2- 9 

 

“LOT FLAGPOLE” shall mean a lot so named because of the long, slender strip of land, 

resembling a “flagpole” that extends from the public or private right-of-way up to the typically 

rectangular portion of the lot.  These “flagpoles” generally share a common driveway inside an 

ingress-egress easement for means of access to each lot. 

 

"LOT WIDTH" shall mean the width of the lot measured at the setback line. 

 

"LOT LINE, FRONT" shall mean any lot line contiguous to a street right-of-way. 

 

"LOT LINE, REAR" shall mean the rear lot line boundary opposite the lot line which the 

principal building fronts.  The rear lot line of an irregular or triangular lot shall be for the 

purpose of this Ordinance a line not less than ten (10) feet long, lying wholly within the lot, and 

parallel to and farthest distance from the front lot line. 

 

"LOT OF RECORD" is a parcel of land the dimensions of which are shown on a map on file 

with the Clerk of Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia, or in common use by county 

officials, and which actually exists as so shown, or any part of such parcel held in a recorded 

ownership separate from the ownership of the remainder thereof.  All lots recorded after 

adoption of this Ordinance shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of a public street, 

road, highway or private lane. 

 

"LOT LINE, SIDE" shall mean a side lot boundary line that is not a front lot line or a rear lot 

line.   

 

“LOW VOLUME” shall mean sound played at a level such that a person speaking in a normal 

tone of voice can be heard clearly over this sound by another person standing thirty-six inches 

(36") away. 

 

"MANUFACTURED HOME" a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the 

traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width and forty body feet or more in length, or, 

when erected on site, is three hundred twenty or more square feet, and which is built on a 

permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent 

foundation. 

 

"MANUFACTURED HOME PARK" shall mean any site, lot, parcel, or tract of land upon 

which two or more manufactured homes are placed in accordance with Section 27 of this 

Ordinance.   

 

"MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE" shall mean a unit of ground, as prescribed by Section 

27 of this Ordinance, which shall be clearly indicated by corner markers on which may be placed 

a Manufactured Home as defined by this Ordinance. 

 

"MAP, OFFICIAL" "OFFICIAL MAP" shall mean the official zoning map of Augusta 

which shows the boundaries of the various districts superimposed upon the Property Map and 

Record System for Augusta, Georgia. 

 

"MASTER PLAN" shall mean any legally adopted part, maps, or element of any Master Plan 

as provided for in Title 8 of the Augusta, Georgia Code by virtue of the Home Rule Provision of 



 

2- 10 

the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983.  Such Master Plan may be entitled a 

"Comprehensive Plan", "Land Use Plan", or other similar terminology. 

 

“MICRO BREWERY” shall mean a manufacture of alcoholic malt beverages of up to 15,000 

barrels per year for the purpose of wholesale distribution of a majority of its product with 

incidental sales to the public either for on-site consumption or for carryout not to exceed 288 

ounces per person per day. Such use must be connected to public water and sewer.  

 

“MINI-WAREHOUSE / SELF SERVICE STORAGE FACILITIES” shall mean a building, 

or group of buildings, divided into units, whose primary purpose is to provide rented or leased 

secure space (warehouse-sized units, rooms, compartments, lockers, containers, outdoor space, 

or similar facilities) for temporary self-storage, where tenants can easily store and retrieve their 

personal property.  This definition does not include the handling of goods for business purposes 

out of the Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage facility.  Coin operated locker services at 

public spaces are excluded from this definition. 

 

"MOTEL" shall mean any building containing sleeping rooms for more or less temporary 

occupancy of individuals who are lodged with or without meals and where the design favors a 

direct vehicular approach to each sleeping or living room.  Any building or structure exceeding 

two   stories in height shall be classified as a Hotel rather than a Motel. 

 

"MOTEL - EXTENDED STAY" shall mean a building containing guest rooms rented for 

temporary lodging where the design favors a direct vehicular approach to each room and where 

more than two rooms have kitchenettes or some kitchen facilities. 

 

“NANO BREWERY” shall mean a producer of alcoholic malt beverages of up to 3,000 barrels 

per year for the purpose of wholesale distribution and retail sales to the public for on-site 

consumption or for carryout not to exceed 288 ounces per person per day. Such use must be 

connected to public water and sewer.  

 

“NANO DISTILLERY” shall mean a producer of alcoholic distilled spirits of up to 500 barrels 

per year for the purpose of wholesale distribution and retail sales to the public for on-site 

consumption or for carryout not to exceed 3 bottles (750 ml) per person per day. Such use must 

be connected to public water and sewer.  

 

"NATURAL GRADE" shall mean the elevation of the ground adjoining the building. 

 

“NIGHTCLUB” shall mean any establishment dispensing alcoholic beverages and meals and in 

which music, dancing and entertainment is conducted. 

 

"NON-CONFORMING USE" shall mean any use of land, buildings, trees, or structures that 

did not conform to the regulations of the district in which it was situated as of March 25, 1963 or 

at such time as amendments to this Ordinance occur. 

 

"NURSING HOME" shall mean a facility that provides full health and continuous nursing care 

of three (3) or more elderly or disabled persons but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar 

institutions devoted primarily to diagnosis and treatment. 

 



 

2- 11 

“OPEN SPACE” is any open piece of land that is undeveloped (has no buildings or other built 

structures) and is accessible to the public. Open space can include: Greenspace, landscaping, 

buffers, and other natural environments. 

 

"PARKING LOT" shall mean a parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces which 

may include partially enclosed one-story buildings, and where a charge is made for storage or 

parking of vehicles. 

 

"PARKING LOT, ACCESSORY"  shall mean a parcel of land used by an individual, 

partnership, firm, or corporation in any commercial or industrial district exclusively for the 

parking of vehicles of its employees or customers, and for which no charge is made. 

 

"PARKING SPACE" shall mean an area of appropriate dimensions per Section 4 of this 

Ordinance, exclusive of access or maneuvering area, or ramps or columns, etc., to be used 

exclusively as a temporary storage space for private motor vehicles.  Truck loading space shall 

not be included in such area.  When the application of a unit of measurement for parking spaces 

to a particular use or structure results in a fractional space, any fraction under one-half shall be 

disregarded and fractions of one-half or over shall be counted as one space. 

 

"PAROCHIAL SCHOOL" deleted March 5, 2013 - See Private School 

 

“PERMANENT PROTECTION - LAND AND/OR WATER WHICH IS”: 

(1) Owned by the Federal, State, or Local Government and permanently designated 

for recreation, conservation, or natural resource protection; or 

(2) Privately owned and subject to a conservation easement that ensures that the land 

will be maintained as greenspace and used only in perpetuity for recreation, 

conservation, or natural resource protection; or 

(3) Privately owned and subject to a permanent restrictive covenant provided for in 

O.C.G.A. 44-5-60 (c); or 

(4) Privately owned and permanently legally protected by any other method that 

ensures that the property will remain forever as greenspace and be used only for 

recreation, conservation, or natural resource protection. 

 

"PERMITTED USE" shall mean a use of land that is permitted or allowed “by right”, and does 

not constitute a nonconforming use, and therefore requires no further rezoning or granting of a 

special exception.  

 

“PERMITTEE” shall mean any person possessing a non-transferable special entertainment 

permit. 

 

"PERSON" shall mean any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company, association, 

joint stock association or body politic, and includes any trustee, receiver, assigns or other similar 

representative thereof. 

 

"PERSONAL CARE HOME" shall mean a building occupied by the property owners, or by a 

person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied by unrelated individuals 

who reside there and receive care and/or supervision from the property owners or persons in their 

employment.   A personal care home shall provide care for elderly and/or handicapped persons.  



 

2- 12 

Personal Care Homes shall be classified as: Family Personal Care Homes, Group Personal Care 

Homes, and Congregate Personal Care Homes. 

 

“PICO BREWERY” shall mean a small batch producer of alcoholic malt beverages of up to 

500 barrels per year for the purpose of retail sales to the public for on-site consumption or for 

carryout not to exceed 288 ounces per person per day. Such use must be connected to public 

water and sewer.  

 

“PICO DISTILLERY” shall mean a small batch producer of alcoholic distilled spirits of up to 

100 barrels per year for the purpose of retail sales to the public for on-site consumption or for 

carryout not to exceed 3 bottles (750 ml) per person per day. Such use must be connected to 

public water and sewer.  

 

"PLANNING COMMISSION" shall mean the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission. 

 

"PLANTING STRIP" shall mean the portion of the street between the curb and the property 

line exclusive of the area occupied by the sidewalk. 

 

"PRIVATE SCHOOL" shall mean an institution which meets the following criteria: 

 

o The primary purpose of the institution is to provide the basic academic 

educational program which includes, but is not limited to, reading, language arts, 

mathematics, social studies and science. 

o The institution is not publically  controlled and operates on a continuous basis 

and; 

o The institution provides instruction each 12 months for the equivalent of 180 days 

of education with each school day consisting of at least four and one-half hours 

per day.  

 

"PUBLIC NOTICE" shall mean a notice published once in a newspaper of general circulation 

in Augusta, Georgia at least 15 days prior to a public hearing concerning proposed changes or 

amendments to this Ordinance including the maps thereto, setting forth the time, place, and 

purpose of said hearing, shall be deemed a public notice. 

 

“RECREATION SPACE” is a portion of Open Space used for physical activity for all age 

groups. Such space may include walking trails, playgrounds, sport facilities, and other facilities. 
 

 

“RECREATIONAL VEHICLES” For the purpose of this ordinance, any of the following 

vehicles designed for travel, recreation, and vacation uses: motorhome ( a portable, temporary 

dwelling constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle); van ( a portable, temporary 

dwelling constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle); pickup camper  (a structure 

designed to be mounted on a truck chassis); recreational trailer (a portable structure built on a 

single chassis, 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest exterior horizontal 

projections); park trailer (a semi-portable structure built on a single chassis which does not 

exceed 400 square feet when constructed to ANSI A-119.5 standards, and 500 square feet when 

constructed to USDHUD standards); or tent trailer (a canvas or synthetic fiber folding structure 

mounted on a hard body base and towed by a vehicle). 

 



 

2- 13 

“RECYCLABLE MATERIAL BINS” – a container having a minimum capacity of two cubic 

yards and that has a hinged mechanism that permits it to be raised and dumped into a sanitation 

vehicle and is used for temporary storage of recycling materials, pending collection. (See also 

“DUMPSTER”) 

 

“RESTAURANT” shall mean an eating establishment having a seating capacity of at least 40 

persons and conducted consistent with Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby 

regulating alcohol licenses for eating establishments. 

 

"ROADWAY" "TRAVELED WAY" or "STREET SURFACE" shall mean that portion of a 

road which is improved, designed, or ordinarily intended for vehicular use.  Divided roads and 

roads with frontage or access roads have more than one roadway.  On undivided roads without 

frontage roadways or access roads, the roadway width lies between the curb lines or between the 

pavement edges, whichever is appropriate. 

 

"SERVICE BUILDING" shall mean a building or structure located within a Manufactured 

Home Park or Travel Trailer Park for the welfare and convenience of the occupants of the 

Manufactured Home Park or Travel Trailer Park within which such Service Building is located.  

Such Service Building shall not be made available for the use of any person not residing in the 

Manufactured Home Park or Travel Trailer Park within which such Service Building is located. 

 

"SETBACK" shall be an unoccupied area of a lot, open and unobstructed from the ground to 

the sky, except as otherwise provided for in this Ordinance.  For the purpose of this Ordinance 

the words "setback" and "yard" are synonymous. 

 

“SIGN” see Section 28-B 

 

"SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED BUILDING" shall mean a building containing two or more 

single- family attached dwelling units joined at one or more points by one or more party walls or 

other common facility not including the walls of an enclosed courtyard or similar area. 

 

"SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING" shall mean a dwelling unit on an individual 

lot attached to another dwelling unit on an adjoining lot by a common party wall.   

 

"SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED SUBDIVISION" shall mean a subdivision development of 

a single-family attached or other dwellings developed in accordance with the provisions of 

Section 13 and the Subdivision Regulations for Augusta Commission. 

 

“SPECIAL ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT” a Special Exception for an establishment that 

provides amplified entertainment and/or live entertainment. 

 

"STORY" shall mean the vertical distance of a building included between the surface of any 

floor and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there be no floor above it, then the space 

between such floor and ceiling next above it, provided that a cellar shall not be considered a 

story.  Attic or basement space is construed as one-half. 

 

"STREET" shall mean a public thoroughfare, where public title to land extends between right-

of-way lines.  Whenever the sense of the law or these regulations so require, the word "Street" 



 

2- 14 

shall include avenue, drive, circle, road, highway, or similar terms as they are generally 

understood. 

 

"STREET, ARTERIAL" shall mean a street designated as either a principal arterial or a minor 

arterial that is a facility of such significance that it serves traffic passing through the Augusta 

area or connects rural and urban traffic or serves major traffic movements within the urbanized 

area. Arterial streets in Augusta have been designated by the functional classification system 

adopted by the Augusta Regional Transportation Study. 

 

"STREET, COLLECTOR" shall mean a street that provides both land access service and 

traffic circulation within residential, commercial, and industrial areas. Collector streets are 

facilities which collect traffic from internal local streets and distribute it to the arterial system. 

Collector streets in Augusta have been designated by the functional classification system adopted 

by the Augusta Regional Transportation Study. 

 

"STREET, DEAD END" shall mean a street with no outlet at one end. 

 

"STREET GRADE" shall mean the grade of the curb or centerline of the street upon which the 

lot abuts at the midpoint of the frontage. 

 

"STREET, INDUSTRIAL" or "BOULEVARD" shall mean a street of some continuity used 

primarily by all forms of commercial or industrial vehicular traffic and used for 

intercommunication between commercial areas and residential areas and industrial districts, or 

between industrial districts. 

 

“STREET LIGHTING” lighting that provides a level of illumination to clearly identify persons 

or objects and creates a psychological deterrent to unwanted or unsafe activity in the area being 

protected. 

 

"STREET LINE" or "RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE" shall mean the dividing line between a lot, 

its property line or lines, and a public right-of-way, a public street, road or highway, over which 

two or more abutting property owners have an easement of right-of-way. 

 

"STREET, MAJOR " or "HIGHWAY" shall mean a highway used primarily for through 

traffic, usually on a continuous route, with intersections at grade and having direct access to 

abutting property, and on which geometric design and traffic control measures are used to 

expedite the safe movement of through traffic. 

 

"STREET, MINOR" or "LOCAL" shall mean a street primarily for access to abutting 

property. 

 

"STREET, RURAL" or "ROAD" shall mean a street supplementary to the major street 

system, which primarily serves agricultural areas or other lands not subdivided for residential 

use. 

 

"STREET WIDTH" shall mean the horizontal distance between the right-of-way lines of the 

street, measured at right angles to the right-of-way lines. 

 



 

2- 15 

"STRUCTURE" shall mean anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or 

less permanent or semi-permanent location on the ground or the attachment to something having 

a permanent location on the ground or water.  (The term shall include all types of buildings, 

houses, gazebos, above-ground swimming pools, in-ground swimming pools, hot tubs, heating 

and air conditioning equipment, house trailers, manufactured homes, stores, commercial 

manufactured units, gasoline canopies and gasoline pumps, car washes, advertising signs, 

billboards, structures from which products are vended, and tents and canopies which are in place 

more than two consecutive days during any calendar quarter).  

 

"STRUCTURAL ALTERATION" shall mean any change in the supporting members of a 

building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, floor joists, or roof joists, 

or in the exterior walls.  

 

"SUBDIVISION, MAJOR"  Any subdivision that is not considered minor. 

 

“SUBDIVISION, MINOR”  Any subdivision meeting the following criteria are minor plats: 

 

a) The subdivision will result in the creation of no more than four (4) lots, and may 

include a remnant lot that has not been subdivided in the past five years; 

b) The subdivision does not involve extension or substantial alterations of public 

utilities; 

c) The subdivision does not require the dedication of public right-of-way; 

d) Any new or residual parcels shall meet the minimum lot size requirements as 

expressed in the Zoning Ordinance.  

 

“TAVERN” shall mean a drinking establishment having a seating capacity of less than 40 

persons conducted consistent with Section 6-2-51 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby 

regulating alcohol licenses (excluding dancing and entertainment). 

 

"THROUGH STREET" or "HIGHWAY" shall mean every street or highway or portion 

thereof at the entrance to which vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to 

stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected.  It generally is radial 

or circumferential in relation to present heavily populated areas and is intended to provide 

continuous, wide, direct and adequate routes designed to insure the future stability of the 

expanding urban areas within Augusta and the region.  They usually include all state and federal 

highways not otherwise designated in the Master Plan. 

 

"TOURIST HOUSE" shall mean a private dwelling that supplies temporary accommodations 

to overnight guests for a fee which may or may not include the preparation of meals. 

 

"TRANSITION HOUSING" shall be housing designed for and/or used for occupancy 

predominantly by a series of short term tenants.  For the purpose of administering and enforcing 

Section 26-1 (g) of this Ordinance short term shall be defined as less than 120 consecutive days.  

The following uses and similar uses shall be considered to be transition housing:  temporary 

quarters for occupancy by visitors to area hospitals, a facility for victims of physical abuse, and 

temporary quarters for tenants receiving assistance from public or private social programs. 

 

"TRAVEL TRAILER PARK" deleted April 2013 see Section 28-E – Recreational Vehicle 

Parks 



 

2- 16 

 

"TREE" shall mean any object of natural growth. 

 

"VETERINARIAN CLINIC" shall mean a facility that provides medical treatment for diseases 

and injuries to animals.  A veterinarian clinic may have some indoor boarding of animals that is 

incidental to and associated with the primary goal of the facility which is providing care and 

treatment to animals. 

 

“WHOLESALER” – shall mean person or firm that buys large quantities of goods from various 

producers and resells them to retailers. 

 

"YARD" shall mean an unoccupied area of a lot, open and unobstructed from the ground to the 

sky, except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance. 

 

"YARD, FRONT" shall mean an open space extending the full width of a lot and of a depth 

measured horizontally at right angles from the front lot line to the front of the structure. 

 

"YARD SALE" shall mean an infrequent event (less than three (3) times per calendar year and 

lasting no more than three days) conducted on property in R-Zoned districts where used 

household goods and personal items are offered for sale to the general public by the owner or 

tenant of the property or by a group of owners or tenants. Holding three (3) or more yard sales 

during a calendar year at the same address shall be considered to be a retail use and the property 

owner shall be required to obtain a suitable zoning classification prior to continuing the activity. 

 

"YARD, SIDE" shall mean an open space extending along the side line of a lot between the 

front yard and the rear yard and of a width measured horizontally at right angles from the side lot 

line to the side of the structure. 

 

"YARD, REAR" shall mean an open space extending the full width of a lot of a depth measured 

horizontally at right angles from the rear lot line to the rear of the structure. 

 
Amended April 2020 – Dumpter 

Amended November 2019 – removed “no restaurant component” for breweries/                                               

distilleries 

Amended August 2018 – Mini-Warehouses and Lodging/Boarding House 

Amended March 2018 – Subdivision, Major and Minor 

Amended February 2018 – Flagpole lots 

Amended August 2017 – Breweries and Distilleries etc. 

Amended June 2017 – Amplified Entertainment, Background Music, Low Volume,   

  Nightclub, Permittee, Special Entertainment Permit 

Amended January 2017 – Accessory Building, Accessory Use, Breezeway, Building,  

Building Height, Building – Main, Dwelling and Lodging, Rooming, 

Boarding House                            

Amended March 2016 – Greenspace, Open Space, Recreation Space & Street Lighting 

Amended April 2, 2013 – delete Travel Trailers and Travel Trailer Parks 

Amended March 5, 2013 – Day Care Centers, Parochial School, Private School 

Amended June 2012 – Funeral Home 

Amended August 2011 – Drinking Establishments 

Amended July 2011- Café, Restaurant, Tavern 

Amended January 2008 – Accessory Buildings & Recreational Vehicles 

 



 

3- 1 

 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 

SECTION 3 
  

AREA AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS 
 

3-1 Area and Setback Requirements:  Except as hereinafter provided, no building or 

structure shall be erected on a lot unless such building or structure, enlargement, addition, 

or alteration conforms with the area regulations and setback requirements of the zone in 

which it is located. 

 

3-2 Reduction of Lot Area:  No lot shall be reduced or diminished so that the yards, other 

open space, or total lot area shall be smaller than prescribed by this Ordinance nor shall 

the density of housing units be increased in any manner except in conformity with the 

regulations herein established. 

 

3-3 Recorded Lots Less Than Minimum Area:  Lots of Record at the time of enactment of 

this Ordinance, which have less than the minimum requirements for an R-Zone, may 

nevertheless be used for uses permitted in respective zones if all standards other than 

those related to lot area can be met. All other lots in an R-Zone shall be in accordance 

with the respective zone requirements. 

 

3-4 Yards Applying to Only One Building:  No required yard or other open space around 

an existing building, or which is hereafter provided around any other building for the 

purpose of complying with the provisions of this Ordinance, shall be considered as 

providing a yard or open space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other 

required open space on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space 

on a lot whereon a building is to be erected. 

 

3-5 Only One Main Building on a Lot: Every building hereafter shall be located on a lot 

herein defined. In no case shall there be more than one main residential building and its 

accessory building on one lot. Row dwellings or a unit group of dwellings may be 

considered as one main residential building. 

 

3-6 Intersection Visibility and Corner Setback: In all zones, except B-2, LI, and HI Zones, 

no construction, fence, hedge, bushes, or other obstruction to a clear view which extends 

over three (3) feet in height shall be permitted at any corner of intersecting streets where 

either or both of the streets are less than sixty (60) feet in width within the area formed by 

the legs of a triangle whose apex is a point of intersection of the centerline of the  

traveled roadways  and  the legs of which are sixty (60) feet in length along the 

centerlines, and the hypotenuse of which is the line connecting the  end of said legs. 

Exceptions shall be made for utility pole lines, lighting standards, post office boxes, 

traffic signs, and trees, the branches of which are kept trimmed to a height of eight (8) 

feet above the ground. 

 

3-7 Front Yard on a Through Lot:   At each end of a through lot there shall be a front yard 

depth required by this Ordinance for the zone in which each street frontage is located. 

 



 

3- 2 

3-8 Group Housing:   DELETED 

 

3-9 Building Setbacks:  DELETED 

 

Building Setbacks: On every road, street, or highway, which conforms to the definition 

of arterial, collector, industrial or major streets or highways, no building, structure, or 

obstruction or part of a building or structure or obstruction of any character shall be 

erected on any land abutting the road, street, or highway nearer than forty (40) feet from 

the right-of-way line of such road, street, or highway.  On all other streets the minimum 

setback shall be 30 feet., except that in the various zones the minimum setback may be 

reduced or increased as set forth under the provisions for those specific zones.  This 

setback shall not apply to any sign advertising the principal use of the property on which 

such sign is erected or placed; provided, however, that no part of any such sign or its 

supporting structure shall be placed nearer than ten (10) feet from the right-of-way line of 

any road, street, or highway.  Off Premises Outdoor Advertising Signs as defined in this 

Ordinance, shall not be thus exempted shall meet all setbacks required for other structures 

as provided elsewhere in this Ordinance.  No sign of any kind shall be located within any 

setback required under Section 3-12 of this Ordinance. 

 

3-11 Building Setbacks: These regulations regarding building setbacks shall be applicable to 

any new roads, streets, or highways hereafter laid out to the same extent as to roads, 

streets, or highways in existence and of public record at the time of the adoption of this 

Ordinance. They shall likewise be applicable to any roads, streets, or highways or areas 

which have been or may be designated as arterial highways on any Thoroughfare Plan, 

adopted by Augusta, Georgia or by the United States Department of Transportation or 

State Governmental Authority showing the location, or proposed location, of roads, 

streets, or thoroughfares in Augusta, Georgia The only sign of any kind shall be the 

standard highway sign marking system. 

 

3-12 Special Building Setbacks:  No building, structure, or part thereof or obstruction 

of any character including the minimum required off-street parking spaces for a   

land use included in Section 4 of this Ordinance, shall be erected, or altered, 

regardless of the use thereon, on any lot: 

 

(a)* Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line on either side of 

Fifteenth Street from Wrightsboro Road to  Martin Luther King Jr. 

Boulevard. 

(b)* DELETED. 

(c)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way  line  on either side 

of Claussen Road from a point 1000 feet south of its intersection  with  the  

CSX Railroad   line   south   to   the intersection with Stevens Creek Road. 

(d)* Nearer than one hundred  (100) feet from the centerline of Windsor Spring 

Road from Tobacco Road to Patterson Bridge Road.  

 (e)* DELETED 

(f)*  DELETED  

 (g) DELETED 

 (h)* Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line on either side of 

Bertram Road. 

 (i)* DELETED. 



 

3- 3 

 

 

 (j) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line on either side of 

Berckmans Road from Washington Road to Wheeler Road. 

(k) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of either side of 

Wrightsboro  Road  from  Highland  Avenue  to  Fifteenth Street. 

(l)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way  line  of Pleasant 

Home Road from Washington Road to where Professional Pkwy. 

intersects. 

(m) DELETED 

(n)*  Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way  line  of Flowing 

Wells Road from Wrightsboro Road to Frontage Road. 

(o) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of  Stevens Creek 

Road from Frontage Road  to  the  Columbia  County Line.  

(p) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of  Marks Church 

Road from Wrightsboro Road to Wheeler Road.   

(q)* DELETED  

(r)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from  the right-of-way line of 

Meadowbrook Drive from Windsor Spring Road to Deans Bridge Road.  

(s)* Deleted - 

(t)* Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Milledgeville 

Road from the east intersection with Gordon Highway (U. S. Highway 

#78, #278) to the west intersection with Gordon Highway (U. S. Highway 

#78, #278) near  Madrid  Drive.  

(u)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way line  of Phinizy 

Road from U.  S.  Highway  #25  to  State  Highway  #56.  

(v)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way  line  of Rosier Road 

from Windsor Spring  Road  to  U.  S.  Highway  #25.  

(w)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way  line  of Barton 

Chapel Road from Wrightsboro Road to Gordon Highway. 

(x)* Deleted -    

(y)* Nearer than forty-five (45) feet from the right-of-way  line  of Brown 

Road from U. S. Highway #25 to State Highway #56.   

(z)* Nearer than forty-five feet from the right-of-way line of Willis Foreman 

Road from U. S. Highway #1 to U. S. Highway #25.   

(aa) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Hephzibah-

McBean Road from Story Mill Road to GA Highway 56.  

(bb) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of old Waynesboro 

Road from GA Highway 56 to Burke County Line. 

(cc) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Powell Road from 

Wrightsboro Road to Gordon Highway. 

(dd) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Belair Road, from 

Wrightsboro Road to Wrightsboro Road.  

(ee) Nearer than forty (40) feet from the right-of-way line of Morgan Road 

from Tobacco road to US Highway #1. 

(ff) Nearer than 70 feet from the right-of-way of S.R. 56 from Tobacco Road 

to Bennock Mill Road. 

 

 



 

3- 4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended July 2016 – Section 3-12(s) 

Amended October 2015 –Section 3-12 (l) - amended 

Amended January 2015 – Section 3-12 (x) -deleted 

Amended August 2008 – Section 3-12 (ff) 

Amended August 2008 – Section 3-12 (f) (g) & (m) - deleted 

Amended January 2005 – Section 3-12 

Amended August 2004 - Section 3-12 (s) 



 

3 A- 1 

3-A Outdoor/Street Lighting  

 

3-A-1 Purpose(s) of the Regulation 

The purpose and intent of this section is to provide a regulatory strategy for outdoor lighting that 

will permit reasonable use of outdoor lighting for nighttime safety, utility, security, productivity, 

enjoyment and commerce; curtail and reverse the degradation of the nighttime visual 

environment and the night sky; preserve the dark night sky for astronomy; minimize glare, 

obtrusive light and artificial sky glow by limiting outdoor lighting that is misdirected, excessive 

or unnecessary; conserve energy and resources to the greatest extent possible; and help to protect 

the natural environment from the damaging effects of night lighting from man-made sources. 

 

3-A-2 Applicability 

1. All new development, site and subdivision plans, must include locational information 

regarding street lights and other outdoor lighting to be installed. All street lighting must 

comply with the latest edition of Augusta’s Street and Road Design Technical Manual and 

be installed concurrently with other public utilities. 

2. All outdoor illuminating devices must be installed in accordance with this section of the 

Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. 

3. All shielded light fixtures shall be installed and maintained as fully shielded fixtures as 

shown below. Examples of local lighting fixtures on streets and pedestrian facility are 

presented below (Table 1). 

 

Table 1: Lighting Fixtures 
Unacceptable (Non-cutoff) Acceptable (Full-cutoff) 

Floodlights Fixtures 

  

Streetlights and dusk to dawn security fixtures Streetlights 

  

Wall packs Wall Packs 

  

Colonial-Type Colonial-Type 

  

Drop-lens canopy fixtures Flush-mounted canopy fixtures 

    

Sag-lens/Drop-lens with exposed light source  

    



 

3 A- 2 

3-A-3 Site and Development Plan Requirements  

1. Type and number of luminary fixtures including cut off characteristics and picture.  

2. Manufacturer cut sheets are permitted. 

3. Lamp source (bulb type), lumen output and wattage 

3-A-4 Technical Standards 

1. All luminaires mounted on or recessed into the lower surface of service station canopies 

and parking structures must be fully shielded and use flat lenses. 

2. Illuminance levels for the interior of parking structures, where interior lighting is visible 

from outside the structure, must conform to the IESNA recommendation (RP-20). 

3. Lights must not be mounted on the top or sides of a canopy and the sides of a canopy must 

not be illuminated. 

4. Security lighting must be directed toward the targeted area, and not adjacent properties. 

5. Sensor activated lighting must be located in such a manner as to prevent direct glare and 

lighting into properties of others or into a public right-of-way, and the light must not be 

triggered by activity off the property. 

6. Pedestrian Path Lighting 

 Lighting posts must not exceed 16 feet in height from the finished grade. 

7. Commercial Parking Areas 

 All lighting fixtures servicing parking lots, except floodlights, must be cutoff fixtures, 

directed downward and not toward buildings or other areas. 

 The minimum illumination level for a parking lot is 0.4 foot-candles at grade level 

and the ratio of the average illumination to the minimum illumination must not 

exceed 4:1. 

 Floodlights must be aimed or shielded to minimize up light. 

 Light poles used in parking lots must not exceed 35 feet in height. 

8. All plans and construction details must satisfy Augusta-Richmond County Code Title 7 

Building and Construction, Article 3 Street lighting. 

9. Mounted height, total lumens (in foot candles) of all fixtures, and total square footage 

illuminated area (Table 2). 

Table 2: Lighting Standards 

Area Average Min. or Max. 

Building Entrance 1 foot candle 5 foot candle max 

Sidewalks .5 foot candle 1.5 foot candle max 

Public Parking Lot .8 foot candle .4 foot candle min 

Private Parking Lot .5 foot candle .13 foot candle min 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AMENDED – DECEMBER 2017 

ADOPTED – MARCH 2016 



 

3 B- 1 

 

Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area 

 

3-B-1 Purpose of the Regulations 

 

Open space requirements are intended to assure opportunities for outdoor recreation or 

relaxation for residents and to ensure development proposals avoid unnecessary impacts on 

natural resources in the nearby vicinity. The standards work to ensure a portion of the site 

not covered by buildings is of adequate size, shape, improvement and location to be usable 

for outdoor recreation or relaxation, and to ensure the preservation of significant natural 

resources within the project. Required open space benefits the public health and is an 

important aspect of livability and sustainability. Open space is particularly important in 

areas of more intensive residential and commercial development. 

 

Open space required by this section may be calculated and used in a variety of ways, 

including natural areas for promotion of water quality, wildlife and ecological functions, 

protection of environmental sensitive lands such as floodplain, floodways, wetlands and 

riparian buffers, parks, gardens, landscaped medians and landscaped shoulders, squares, 

village greens, courtyards, or recreational space provided the use is consistent with the 

requirements of this section.  

 

3-B-2 Applicability 

 

All residential development in every residentially zoned districts. Open and Recreation 

space must meet one of four options based on total land area. 

 

Options Open Space Recreation Space 

Conservation 

* 

40% min 

/30% min 

10% min of Open 

Space 

Planned** 25% See note at ** 

Mixed Use 

*** 

20% See note at *** 

Compact**** 10% min 10% min of Open 

Space 

 

*Applicants seeking Conservation Subdivision must meet requirements of Section 28-D 

Conservation Subdivision of the Zoning Ordinance. 

**See Section 13-9 and Section 19-6-c) of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance 

***See Section 25-G of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. 

****All R- zoning classifications not otherwise specified and Manufactured Home Parks per 

Section 27-6-(l) of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance 

 

 

3-B-3 Permitted and Prohibited Uses of Open Space 
 

Permitted Uses Prohibited Uses 

Conservation areas for natural, archeological or 

historical resources 

Roads, parking lots, and impervious 

surfaces 



 

3 B- 2 

Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife 

corridors, floodplain, floodways, riparian 

buffers, or similar conservation-oriented areas 

Agricultural or forestry activities and 

commercial livestock operation, for 

something other than personal use 

 Stormwater (pipes and ponds)  and 

wastewater control measures and all 

easements do not count towards total open 

space 

Passive and active recreation (impervious 

surface limited to 10% of total open space) 

All pavement within right-of-ways do not 

count towards total open space; however, 

grassed areas outside of pavement and 

within right-of-ways does count toward 

open space requirements if it is  maintained 

by the HOA 

Areas designed for water quality, water bodies, 

lakes, and ponds (limited to 50% of total open 

space)   

Community gardens, pocket parks, playgrounds, 

pedestrian and multipurpose trails squares, 

village greens, courtyards, and other similar 

neighborhood uses, and community related 

facilities and uses.   
 

 

 

3-B-4 Ownership and Maintenance of Open Space 

 

A plan for the ownership and maintenance of the open space shall be submitted at the time 

of the Development Plan submittal.  Ownership and maintenance responsibility of the open 

space shall also be noted on the Final Plat for the subdivision. A copy of the recorded 

ownership and maintenance document shall be submitted prior to Final Plat approval.  The 

open space shall be owned and maintained by the equitable owners as outlined below: 

 
 

Ownership and Maintenance Conveyance and Dissolution 

City and Land Trust Open space shall be conveyed to City, 

land trust or property owner's 

association in fee simple, without 

encumbrances, such as utilities, 

drainage, and easements. 

Open space may be deeded to City or CSRA 

Land Trust or any other recognized land 

trust., or similar organization, within the 

state of Georgia who will take full 

responsibility for its maintenance. (Note:  

The City or a land trust is under no 

obligation to take ownership of this land.) 

Property Owner's Association If property owner's association is 

dissolved, open space will be deeded 

to another entity that shall be 

responsible for maintenance and 

upkeep. If no offer is accepted, open 

space shall be deeded to City. Such 

costs shall become a lien on all 

The open space may be held in common 

ownership by a property owners’ 

association. Such ownership is subject to all 

Georgia Code § 44-3-221 and 235 

provisions.   

 



 

3 B- 3 

If a Property Owners Association takes 

ownership of the open space, membership in 

the property owners’ association shall be 

mandatory for all purchasers of lots within 

the subdivision and their successors in title. 

subdivision properties.  See 3-B-4-4. 

 

 

1. Property owner's association. The property owner's association bylaws or covenants, at a 

minimum, shall contain the following provisions: 

 Responsibility for insurance, taxes, maintenance of the open space. 

 Instant mandatory membership and assessment of all lot purchasers and successors. 

 Conditions and timing of transferring control from developer to lot owners. 

 Guarantee association will not be dissolved without the advance approval of the City. 

2. The developer shall record the necessary legal instrument to accomplish protection of the 

open space prior to, or concurrent with, the recording of the subdivision Final Plat. The 

instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on the use of the open 

space. These restrictions shall include all restrictions contained in this Section, as well as 

any further restrictions the applicant chooses to place on the use of the open space or the 

City imposes as a condition of zoning. 

3. An open space management plan shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a 

development/site plan review approval. The open space management plan shall: 

 Allocate responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the open 

space and any facilities located thereon, including provisions for ongoing 

maintenance and for long-term capital improvements; 

 Estimate the costs and staffing requirements needed for maintenance and operation 

of, and insurance for, the open space and outlines the means by which such funding 

will be obtained or provided; 

 Provide that any changes to the plan be approved by the City; and 

 Provide for enforcement of the plan. 

4. In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the open space fails to maintain all 

or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the City of Augusta may assume 

responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action, 

including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance may be 

charged to the Property Owners’ Association, or to the individual property owners that 

make up the Property Owners’ Association, and may include administrative costs and 

penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all subdivision properties. 

 

3-B-5 Delineation of Open Space  

 

Open space will be delineated on all site and development plans based on the following 

requirements: 

 

1. The required open space must be accessible to the largest practicable number of dwelling 

units / subdivision lots within the development. Non-adjoining open space lots must be 

provided with safe, convenient access to the open space from a public or private road with 

a minimum of 25 feet of frontage on said public or private road. 

2. Where feasible, open space should join any neighboring area of open space, other 

protected areas and/or non-protected natural areas. 



 

3 B- 4 

3. In subdivisions, land provided for open space and not proposed for improvement by the 

developer shall be deeded to a qualified property owners’ association or the City of 

Augusta upon the approval of the final plat containing said land and shall be used 

exclusively for open space purposes. The qualified property owners’ association shall be 

established under the laws of Georgia and shall provide for the mandatory membership of 

all the owners of property within the subdivision who shall be responsible for the 

perpetual maintenance and function of the open space areas and all uses or facilities 

therein. The association shall have the authority and duty to assess its members for such 

maintenance and improvements as set forth in the instrument creating the association. All 

covenants shall be recorded simultaneously with the final subdivision plat. 

4. In subdivisions, land provided for recreational uses within the dedicated open space and 

not proposed for improvement by the developer shall be deeded to a qualified property 

owners’ association or the City of Augusta upon the approval of the final plat containing 

said land and shall be used exclusively for recreational purposes. The qualified property 

owners’ association shall be established under the laws of Georgia and shall provide for 

the mandatory membership of all the owners of property within the subdivision who shall 

be responsible for the perpetual maintenance and function of the recreational areas and all 

uses or facilities therein. The association shall have the authority and duty to assess its 

members for such maintenance and improvements as set forth in the instrument creating 

the association. All covenants shall be recorded simultaneously with the final subdivision 

plat.  

5. The City of Augusta may lease or sell land reserved for public parks to a qualified 

property owners’ association with a deed restriction that the land be used exclusively for 

open space or public recreational purposes in perpetuity. The organization of a qualified 

property owners’ association and its adequate financing for the discharge of its 

responsibilities shall be assured through acceptable private deed covenants running with 

the land or other such documents as approved the City of Augusta. 

6. Undeveloped and natural open space shall remain undeveloped and natural except for the 

provision of non-motorized passive recreation opportunities such as running, walking, 

biking, and similar outdoor activities. "pocket parks" and "greens" may be constructed and 

maintained within open space areas.  

 

A "pocket park" or "green" is a landscaped area larger than 0.33 acres constructed for 

community gathering or play, or visual enhancement (Figure 1).  

 

"Pocket parks" or "greens" shall not exceed ten percent of the total open space. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

3 B- 5 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADOPTED – UPDATED VERSION – JANUARY 2017 

 

ADOPTED – MARCH 2016 

Figure 1: Pocket Park 



 

3 B- 1 

 

 

3 B- 1




 

4 - 1 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 

SECTION 4 
 

OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING 

 

Purpose:  In order to relieve traffic congestion in the streets, to minimize any effects of off-street 

parking areas on adjacent properties, and to ensure the proper and uniform development of off-

street parking areas throughout Augusta, off-street parking and loading spaces for every use shall be 

provided in accordance with the standards established in this section. 

 

4-1 General Requirements for Off-Street Parking:  Following are the general requirements 

for this section: 

(a) All off-street automobile storage or parking facilities shall be designed with 

appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or lane.  Except for single-family or 

two- family dwellings fronting on a minor or local street, no required off-street 

parking facilities shall be arranged so as to require backing from the space directly 

onto a public street. 

(b) General off-street parking plans shall be submitted as part of a proposed site plan.  

Such plans shall show the proposed layout of all parking areas, the total number of 

off-street parking spaces to be provided, and the dimensions of the typical individual 

parking space.  Off-street parking plans including driveways and curb cuts shall be 

approved by the Planning  and Development Department Staff. 

(c)  Individual parking spaces, except for compact parking, shall have the minimum 

      dimensions of nine (9) feet in width and eighteen (18) feet in length unless off- 

      street parking is to be provided in common parking bays or lots. Common parking 

      bays or lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements illustrated in the 

      following chart. 

(d)      Credit for Compact Parking – Up to ten percent (10% ) of the  off-street parking 

     spaces for a use requiring 25 spaces or more off-street parking spaces may be 

     designed for compact cars subject to the following conditions: 

 

1. Parking spaces for compact cars shall be located so as to be as convenient as 

parking spaces for larger cars and shall be grouped or placed in clusters rather 

than being scattered simply to solve parking layout difficulties. 

2. Each compact car parking space shall be clearly and distinctly marked with 

pavement markings and signage denoting “compact car only”, and such parking 

spaces may be reduced to eight (8) feet by sixteen (16) feet stall sizes. 

3. Should compact car parking spaces be exclusively utilized on either side of a 

drive aisle, the drive aisle may be reduced in width at the discretion of the 

Executive Director. 

 

 



 

4 - 2 

                     
 (e) All common off-street parking bays shall be graded to provide adequate drainage 

and shall be paved with an all weather material or equivalent surface subject to the 

approval of the City Engineer. 

(f) Along those lot lines of an off-street parking area which abuts a residential district, a 

solid screen (i.e. fence, wall, or berm) of no less than six (6) feet in height shall be 

erected.  The screen shall conform to the Augusta Tree Ordinance and continue for 

the entire length of the property line abutting a residential district. 

(g) A curb cut shall be located as far as practical from the intersection of the right-of-

way lines of two streets, and no curb cut shall be permitted within fifty (50) feet of 

an intersection.  Each parcel that is in ownership separate from the ownership of 

contiguous parcels shall be entitled to at least one curb cut per street front.  Except in 

single-family residential zones, curb cuts shall be at least 100 feet apart where 

practical.  Except in single-family residential zones, shared driveways are 

encouraged, and where practical a driveway that is not a shared driveway shall be at 

least fifty (50) feet from a property line. 

(h) Any light used to illuminate required parking areas shall be arranged so that the light 

is reflected away from adjacent properties. 

(i) No sign (permanent or temporary), light standard, or screening material shall be 

placed so as to inhibit the orderly use of a parking facility or in a manner which 

reduces   the   number  of   usable   parking   spaces.  No  sign,  light  standard,  or   

screening material shall be placed so that it obstructs visibility for drivers or 

pedestrians. 

(j) All off-street parking spaces located in common parking bays or lots shall be marked 

by a durable painted stripe designating no less than the required minimum parking 

space area. 

(k) No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall be permitted in conjunction with off-

street parking areas except minor repair on vehicles owned by the occupant or 

resident of the principal use for which the off-street parking is intended. 

(l) If the required off-street parking space cannot be reasonably provided on the same 

lot, tract, or parcel on which the principal use is conducted, the applicant may be 

permitted to provide such space on other off-street property, provided such space lies 

within 300 feet of the property line of the principal use.  Such space may be parking 

provided for other uses, provided the utilization of the parking area by the proposed 

uses does not conflict with the activities associated with the primary use, and that the 

applicant obtains written authorization for utilization of the parking facility on a 

continuing basis. 

(m) The provisions of the Augusta Tree Ordinance related to parking lots (Augusta Code 

Section 8-4-1) shall be complied with. 

(n) No required parking may be located within any “special setback” area per Section 3-

12 of this Ordinance. 

http://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=images&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CAcQjRw&url=http://www.myparkingsign.com/parking-area-reserved-for-compact-car-only-sign/sku-k-2720&ei=UOJdVfuLHpLugwT72YHAAw&bvm=bv.93756505,d.eXY&psig=AFQjCNGaK7cc5POkckMEHEvtJXL4sTDZPg&ust=1432302497468725
http://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=images&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CAcQjRw&url=http://www.safetysign.com/products/p3885/compact-car-parking-only-sign&ei=UOJdVfuLHpLugwT72YHAAw&bvm=bv.93756505,d.eXY&psig=AFQjCNGaK7cc5POkckMEHEvtJXL4sTDZPg&ust=1432302497468725
http://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=images&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CAcQjRw&url=http://www.alphabetsigns.com/signs/c/ST07.html&ei=h-ddVdeKMYuxggSGh4D4Cg&bvm=bv.93756505,d.eXY&psig=AFQjCNEbIeclUmdBX1LsMhIfh2NWFLT2PA&ust=1432303900434233
https://hdsupplysolutions.com/1/1/53871-parking-stop-block-stencil-compact-car.html


 

4 - 3 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 GROUP I: STANDARD CARS GROUP II: COMPACT CARS 

  ° ANGLE OF PARK ° ANGLE OF 
PARK 

DIMENSION KEY 0° 45° 60° 75° 90° 0
° 

45° 60° 75
° 

9
0
° Stall Width A 8’-6” 9’-0” 9’-0” 9’-0” 9’-0” 7’-6” 8’-0” 8’-0” 8’-0” 8’-0” 

Stall Depth B 24’-0” 18’-0” 18’-0” 18’-0 18’-0 22’-0” 16’-0” 16’-0” 16’-0” 16’-0” 

Module, Wall To Interlock C - 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” - 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 

Module, Interlocking D - 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” - 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 60’-0” 

Module, Interlocking To Curb Face E - 58’-0” 58’-0” 58’-0” 58’-0” - 58’-0” 58’-0” 58’-0” 58’-0” 

Bumper Overhang (Typical) F 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 2’-6” 

Aisle Width (One-Way) G 12’-0” 18’-0” 19’-0” 20’-0” 24’-0” 12’-0” 18’-0” 22’-0” 22’-0” 24’-0” 

Aisle Width (Two-Way) G 24’-0” 22’-0” 22’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 22’-0” 22’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 

Cross Aisle / Access Drive (One-Way) H 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 14’-0” 

Cross Aisle / Access Drive (One-Way) H 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 24’-0” 

Entrance Drive (One-Way) I 
 

Note: Driveway width and all access shall be in accordance with the Georgia Department of 
Transportation 
(GDOT) and Augusta-Richmond County standards. 

Entrance Drive (Two-Way) I 

 
 

Last updated: July 24, 2015 



 

4 - 4 

 

4-2 Off-Street Parking Requirements for all Areas Except Central Business District 

(CBD):  Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided with vehicular 

access to a public street and shall be equal to or greater than the minimum requirements for  

 

 
Land Use Parking Requirements 

 

(a) Dwelling Structures 

 

 

 

(1)  One and Two Family Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit. 

 

(1.1) One Family Attached 

(1.2) One Family Detached 

(1.3) Two Family Duplex 

(1.4) Townhouses/Patio Homes  

2.25 – 2.5 per dwelling unit 

2.25 – 2.5 per dwelling unit 

2.25 – 2.5 per dwelling unit 

2.25 – 2.5 per dwelling unit 

 

(2)  Multifamily, efficiency 

       and one bedrooms 

One and one-half (1.5) spaces for each 

dwelling unit. 

(2.1)  Multifamily, two or 

          more bedrooms 

Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit. 

(3)  Personal Care Homes with six (6) 

      or less individuals who reside there 

      and receive care 

One (1) space for each three (3) individuals 

who reside there and receive care, one (1) 

space for an on-site care provider, and one 

(1) space for visitors 

(4)  Fraternity and Sorority 

      Houses 

One (1) space for each two (2) beds or one 

(1) space for each five (5) members, 

whichever is greater. 

(5)  Manufactured Home Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit. 

 

(6)  Lodging  or Boarding House One (1) space for each two (2) individuals 

in residence and one (1) space for the 

owner/resident manager 

(b)  Public Assembly  

(1)  Churches and other places 

       of  worship 

One (1) space for each three (3) seats per 

maximum capacity of the main sanctuary. 

(2)  Private clubs, lodges and 

       fraternal buildings not 

       providing overnight 

       accommodations. 

The number of spaces required shall be 

determined by the Planning and 

Development Department staff on the basis 

of the type of use proposed, its intended 

occupancy, and seating arrangement. 

 

(3)  Theaters, auditoriums, 

       coliseums, stadiums, 

       and similar places of 

       Assembly 

 

One (1) space for each four (4) seats based 

on the maximum capacity. 

(4)   Libraries, museums One (1) space for each 300 square feet of 

gross floor area. 

 

(5)   Schools, by type: 

 



 

4 - 5 

Land Use Parking Requirements 
       Elementary and Junior High Two (2) space per classroom at maximum 

occupancy. 

       Senior High Seven (7) spaces per classroom at 

maximum occupancy. 

      Colleges and trade 

      Schools 

One (1) space per two students at 

maximum occupancy. 

(6)   Kindergarten or day care 

       centers 

One (1) space for each four (4) children at 

maximum occupancy. 

(7)  Skating rinks, exhibition 

       halls, pool rooms, and other 

       places of amusement or 

       assembly without fixed 

       seating arrangements 

One (1) space for each 200 square feet of 

floor area intended for public use. 

(8)   Bowling Alleys Four (4) spaces per alley. 

(9)  Recreational facilities not 

       elsewhere specified 

The number of spaces required shall be 

determined by the Planning and 

Development Department staff on the basis 

of the type of use proposed, its intended 

occupancy, and seating arrangements. 

 

(c)  Health Facilities 

 

(1)   Hospitals One and one-half (1.5) spaces for each bed. 

(2)  Sanitariums, nursing homes, 

       personal care homes, group 

       Homes, and similar institutional    

       uses. 

One (1) space for each three (3) beds, or 

one space per three (3) residents whichever 

is appropriate at maximum occupancy. 

(3)   Medical, dental, and health 

        clinics and offices 

One (1) space for each 200 square feet of 

gross floor area. 

(4)   Mortuaries and funeral 

        parlors 

One space for each 150 square feet of gross 

floor area 

(5)   Veterinary clinics, kennels, 

        and animal hospitals 

 

 

One (1) space for each 200 square feet of 

enclosed area. 

(d)  Commercial  Establishments    

(1)   Automobile repair 

        establishments 

One (1) space for each 300 square feet of 

floor space. 

(2)   Convenience stores (gas/food  

        marts) and similar establishments. 

One (1) space for each 150 square feet of 

floor area. 

(3)   Automobile washing and 

        cleaning establishments 

One (1) space for each customer vehicle 

the establishment is capable of 

accommodating. 

(4)   Automobile sales (new and 

        used) and manufactured home 

        Sales 

One (1) space for each 4000 square feet of 

land area for the first 20,000 square feet 

plus one (1) space for each additional 

10,000 square feet of land area. 

(5)   Food stores except for conven- 

  ience stores 

One (1) space for each 200 square feet of 

retail area, plus one (1) space for each 

1,000 square feet of area used for storage 

or work. 



 

4 - 6 

Land Use Parking Requirements 
 (6)   General retail sales, 

         commercial or personal 

         service establishments 

One (1) space for each 200 square feet of 

retail sales area, plus one (1) space for each 

1000 square feet of remaining leasable area 

used for storage or work area. 

(7)    Appliance Stores One (1) space for each 200 square feet of 

retail sales area plus one (1) space for each 

500 square feet of remaining  area used for 

storage or work area. 

(8)   Furniture Stores One (1) space for each 750 square feet of 

retail sales area, plus one (1) space for each 

1,000 square feet of remaining leasable 

area used for storage or work area. 

(9)   Restaurants, by-type:  

       Fast Food One (1) space for each 75 square feet of 

patron use area, plus one (1) space for 

every four (4) employees 

       Sit-down One (1) space for each 50 square feet of 

patron use area, plus one (1 space for every 

four (4) employees 

      Sit-down and Brewpub 

 

One (1) space for each 50 square feet of 

patron use area, plus one (1 space for every 

four (4) employees 

(10)  Night clubs, taverns, 

         lounges, and similar 

         Nightclubs, Taverns, 

  Lounges, Micro, Nano & Pico 

  Breweries, Micro, Nano & Pico 

  Distilleries and similar 

         Establishments 

 

         Establishments that provide  

        Amplified Entertainment 

 

One (1) space per 100 square feet of gross 

floor area. 

(11)  Office buildings except 

         medical, dental, and health 

         clinics and branch banks 

One (1) space for each 300 square feet of 

gross floor area. 

(12)   Branch banks One (1) space for each 300 square feet of 

floor area plus five (5) inbound reservoir 

spaces and one (1) outbound reservoir 

space for each drive-in window. 

(13)   Bank and other financial 

          institutions, except branch 

          banks 

One (1) space for each 300 square feet of 

gross floor area. 

(14)   Shopping Centers with more 

          than 50,000 square feet of 

          Gross leasable area  

4.5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of 

gross floor area. 

(15)   Mini warehouses Four (4) spaces for office and one (1) space 

per truck 



 

4 - 7 

Land Use Parking Requirements 
 (16)  Hotels, Hotels Extended Stay, 

         Motels, Motels Extended Stay 

One (1) space for each room plus one 

space for each two employees, plus 

additional spaces as required for other 

functions such as bar, restaurant, etc. 

(17)  Boarding and Rooming 

        Houses, Dormitories  

One (1) space for each guest or sleeping 

room or one (1) space for each 150 square 

feet of sleeping area whichever is greater. 

(e)   Industrial Establishments 

 

 

(1)   Manufacturing and industrial 

        establishments 

One space for each 2,500 square feet of 

gross floor area. 

(2)   Wholesale trade establishments,  

        warehouses except mini- 

        Warehouses 

One (1) space for each 2,500 square feet of 

gross floor area. 

 

(f) Uses Not Specified.   In the case of a use not specifically mentioned in Section 4-2 

the requirements for off-street parking facilities shall be determined by the Staff.  

Such determination shall be based upon the requirements set for the most 

comparable use specified in Section 4-2. 

 

(g) Reduction in Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces.  The Planning 

Commission may, at its discretion, reduce the minimum number of parking spaces 

required for a specific use by Section 4-2(a) through 4-2(e) above provided that 

sufficient evidence is presented justifying the need for reduction in the requirements 

and every effort has been made to provide off-street parking in accordance with the 

stipulations of this section. 

 

(h) Credit for Certain On-Street Parking.  Outside the Central Business District 

designated, marked, on-street parking spaces located contiguous to a development 

may reduce the off-street parking requirement at a rate of one-half off-street space 

per on-street space. 

 

4-3 Off-Street Parking Requirements for the Central Business District (CBD):  Off-street 

parking shall be provided in the Central Business District in accordance with the following 

regulations:  

(a) For the purpose of this section, the Central Business District shall be defined as the 

area bounded by the following streets and including all lots or parcels fronting on 

said streets:  

(1) Levee Road from Gordon Highway to Fifteenth Street; 

(2) Fifteenth Street from Levee Road to Greene Street; 

(3) Greene Street from Fifteenth Street to Thirteenth Street; 

(4)  Thirteenth Street from Greene Street to Telfair Street; 

(5)  Telfair Street from Thirteenth Street to Gordon Highway;  

(6) Gordon Highway from Telfair Street to Levee Road. 

(b) Public or semipublic parking lots and garages available for general use and metered 

curb parking spaces within 300 feet of the proposed use may be applied toward the 

total off-street parking spaces needed. 

(c) All provisions set forth in Sections 4-1 and 4-2 shall apply to the above described 

area except as follows:  



 

4 - 8 

 

 
Land Use Parking Requirements 

(1)  Restaurants, night clubs, 

       taverns, lounges, and similar 

       Establishments 

One (1) space for each 400 square feet of gross 

floor area. 

(2)  Office buildings except 

       medical, dental, and 

       health clinics; and  branch 

       Banks 

One (1) space for each 400 square feet of gross 

floor area. 

(3)  Hotels and Motels One (1) space for each three (3) rooms plus 

additional space as required for other functions such 

as bar, restaurant, etc. 

(4)  Retail stores, department                        

stores, commercial or  personal           

service establishments except              

food stores 

One (1) space for each 400 square feet of gross 

leasable area.   

 

(d) The Planning Commission may, at its discretion, reduce the minimum number of 

parking spaces required for a specific use by Section 4-3(c) provided that sufficient 

evidence is presented justifying the need for a reduction in the requirements and 

every effort has been made to provide off-street parking in accordance with the 

stipulations of this section.   

 

(e)  Nonconforming Parking and Loading in the Central Business  

 District (CBD).  All uses are exempt from the parking requirements.  

 

(The success of the proposed parking regulation amendment is dependent on the 

implementation of a Parking Management Plan.)   

 

4-4 General Requirements for Off-Street Loading:  Off-street loading and unloading space 

shall be provided as hereinafter required by this Ordinance.  For the purposes of this section, 

the following general requirements are specified: 

 

(a) The term "off-street loading and unloading space" shall mean an area having the 

minimum dimensions of 14 feet in height, 12 feet in width, and 50 feet in length plus 

adequate maneuvering area to facilitate entry into and exit from the space. The 

Planning Commission may, upon sufficient demonstration that a particular loading 

space will be used exclusively by small trucks or vans, reduce the minimum 

dimension requirements accordingly. 

(b) Each required off-street loading space shall have direct access to a street or have a 

driveway which provides satisfactory ingress and egress for trucks.  The width of the 

access way shall be at least 25 feet wide and shall have a minimum radius at the curb 

line of 25 feet. 

(c) Each required off-street loading space shall be so designated as to avoid undue 

interference with other vehicular or rail access, use of public streets, or other public 

transport systems. 

(d) All off-street loading facilities, including spaces and maneuvering area, shall be 

adequately drained and paved with an all-weather material or equivalent surface 

subject to the approval of the Public Works Department. 



 

4 - 9 

(e) Along those lot lines of the loading area which abut a residential district, a solid 

screen of no less than five (5) feet in height shall be erected. 

(f) Any light used to illuminate required off-street loading areas shall be arranged so 

that the light is reflected away from adjacent properties.  No light standard shall be 

erected within fifteen (15) feet of any curb line of a public street. 

(g) All off-street loading areas and their respective maneuvering areas shall be set back 

not less than ten (10) feet from a public right-of-way. 

(h) No portion of the area required for off-street parking as specified in Section 4-2 shall 

be used for off-street loading, unloading, or maneuvering space. 

 

4-5 Off-Street Loading Requirements for All Use Zones: Off-street loading and unloading 

space shall be provided with access to a public street and shall be equal to or greater than the 

minimum requirements set forth as follows:  

 
Land Use Loading Requirements 

(a)  Dwelling Structures  

(1)  Hotels and Motels One (1) space for each 20,000 square feet of 

floor area. 

(b) Public Assembly  

(1)  Private clubs, lodges, and 

       fraternal buildings not 

       providing overnight 

      Accommodations 

One (1) space for each 20,000 square feet of 

floor area. 

(2) Theaters, auditoriums, 

      coliseums, stadiums, and 

      similar places of assembly 

One (1) space for each structure having 

more than 100,000 square feet of floor area. 

(3)  Schools, all types One (1) space for each structure having 

more than 100,000 square feet of floor area. 

 

(4)  Bowling Alleys One (1) space for each structure having 

more than 20,000 square feet of floor area. 

(c)  Health Facilities  

(1)  Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing 

      homes, and similar institutional 

      Uses 

One (1) space for each 100,000 square feet 

of floor area. 

(d)  Commercial Establishments  

(1)  Food stores One (1) space for the first 10,000 square feet 

of floor area plus one (1) space for each 

additional 30,000 square feet of floor area. 

(2)  Restaurants, night clubs, 

      taverns, lounges, and similar 

      establishments 

 

One (1) space for the first 10,000 square feet 

of floor area plus one (1) space for each 

additional 30,000 square feet of floor area. 

  

(3)  Office buildings except 

      medical, dental, and health 

      Clinics 

One (1) space for structures between 30,000 

square feet and 100,000 square feet of floor 

area plus one (1) space for each additional 

100,000 square feet of floor area. 

(4)  Retail stores, department 

      stores, commercial or personal 

      service establishments, except 

      food stores 

One (1) space for first 10,000 square feet of 

floor area plus one (1) space for each 

additional 50,000 square feet of floor area. 



 

4 - 10 

(5)  Shopping Centers One (1) space for each 50,000 square feet of 

floor area. 

 

(e)  Industrial Establishments  

  

(1)  Manufacturing and industrial 

      establishments 

One (1) space for each 40,000 square feet of 

floor area. 

(2)  Wholesale trade 

       establishments 

One (1) space for each 50,000 square feet of 

floor area. 

(3)  Transport terminal facilities One (1) space for each 30,000 square feet of 

floor area. 

 

(f) Uses Not Specified.  In the case of a use not specifically mentioned in Section 4-5, 

the requirements for off-street loading facilities shall be determined by the Planning 

Commission.  Such determination shall be based upon the requirements set forth for 

the most comparable use specified in Section 4-5. 

 

(g) Reduction in Number of Required Off-Street Loading Spaces.  The Planning 

Commission may, at its discretion, reduce the minimum number of loading spaces 

required for a specified use by Section 4-5(a) through 4-5(e) above provided that 

sufficient evidence is presented justifying the need for reduction in the requirements 

and every effort has been  made to provide off-street loading in accordance with the 

stipulations of this section. 

 

4-6 Nonconforming Parking and Loading Spaces:  Any building lawfully in use on February 

4, 1974, shall constitute a nonconforming use with regard to parking.  Any enlargement of a 

nonconforming building or expanded use of a nonconforming building must provide the 

required parking for the additional area or use. 

 

4.7 Zoning Classification Changes:  Any building on property for which the zoning     

classification is subsequently changed or a Special Exception is subsequently granted shall 

be provided with sufficient off-street parking pursuant to this section prior to occupancy.  

 

4-8  Bicycle Parking – General Provisions 

 

4-8-1   Statement of Intent: Establish and update parking standards to allow flexible parking 

            strategies that are economical and encourage access management, mobility and accessibility 

            for all travel modes and bicycle parking that create pedestrian friendly, environmentally  

            sustainable and  affordable developments. 

 

 

4-8-2  Applicability: Bicycle parking requirements of this section shall apply to: 

 

a) Any new building greater than 1,200 square feet of gross floor area. 

b) Any existing building undergoing a change of use and or expansions and 

alterations, greater than 1,200 square feet of gross floor area.  

 

4-8-3  Exemptions: The following uses shall not be required to provide bicycle parking:  

 

a) residential including one and two family dwellings 



 

4 - 11 

b) fraternity and sorority houses 

c) private clubs, lodges and fraternal buildings not proving overnight 

accommodations 

d) automobile repair establishments 

e) convenience stores (gas/food marts) and similar establishments 

f) automobile washing and cleaning establishments 

g) automobile sales (new and used) and manufactured homes sales 

h) appliance stores 

i) furniture stores 

j) night clubs, taverns, lounges, and similar establishment 

k) mini warehouses 

l) manufacturing and industrial establishments 

m) wholesale trade establishments, warehouses  

 

4-8-4  Required Bicycle Parking Spaces:  
 

a) For all required uses, a minimum of two short-term and two long-term 

bicycle parking spaces shall be provided. 

b) Bicycle parking must be provided at a rate of one bike space for every ten 

vehicle parking spaces. 

c) Whenever a site is exempted from the vehicular parking requirements, the 

required bicycle parking for the site shall still be calculated based upon the 

amount of vehicular parking that would have been required for that site. 

 

4-8-5  General Requirement Standards: The following general requirements are specified:  

a) A bicycle parking space required by this ordinance shall be at least 6 feet 

long and 2 feet wide with a 5 foot access aisle. 

b) All required bicycle racks and facilities must be in accordance with the 

Association of Pedestrian and Bicycle Professionals Bike Parking 

Guidelines (APBP). 

c) Whenever vehicle parking spaces are provided in a structure, all required 

bicycle spaces shall be located inside that structure or shall be located in 

other areas protected from the weather. 

 

4-8-6  Types of Bicycle Parking:  
a) Short-Term Bicycle Parking. A type of parking is generally intended to 

accommodate visitors, customers, messengers, and other persons expected to 

park for a few minutes to depart within approximately two (2) hours. 

b) Long-Term Bicycle Parking. A type of parking is generally intended to 

accommodate employees, students, residents, commuters, and other persons who 

expect to leave their bicycle parked for more than 2 hours. 

4-8-7  Bicycle Parking Requirements:  
a) Short-Term Bicycle Parking. Choose properly designed bicycle racks that 

support a bicycle’s frame and are secure. Provides secure and functional parking 

that can support the bicycle upright on a horizontal plane. 



 

4 - 12 

1. Short-term bicycle parking shall consist of bicycle racks that support the bicycle frame 

at two points. Racks that support only the wheel of the bicycle are not permissible.   

i. Well-spaced racks allow for ease and efficiency of bicycle parking. 

ii. Allow front-in and back-in parking. 

iii. Racks shall allow for the bicycle frame and at least one wheel to be locked to 

the racks. 

iv. The bicycle rack shall allow for the use of a cable as well as a U-shaped lock. 

v. If bicycles can be locked to each side of the rack, each side shall be counted 

toward a required space. 

vi. Racks shall be securely anchored to an approved paved surface. 

vii. At least half of parking should be covered for short-term parking if more than 

ten (10) bicycles can be parked there. 

b) Long-Term Bicycle Parking. Long-term bicycle parking requires a high degree 

of security and weather protection, with well-designed racks in covered areas, 

lockers, storage rooms, or fenced areas (enclosed on all sides) with restricted 

access.  

1. Acceptable examples of long-term bicycle parking include bicycle lockers or cages that 

are well maintained and have good placement locations.  Long-term bicycle parking 

shall be secured from the general public.  Acceptable examples of some enhanced 

security measures may include variable levels of entry control to facilities, whereas 

access to bicycle facilities is restricted and or monitored parking.  

4-8-8  Siting Requirements: Required bicycle parking shall be provided on the same lot as the use 

           for  which it is intended to serve. 

a) Short-Term Bicycle Parking.  For new buildings, short-term bicycle parking 

shall be located to maximize visibility from the main entrance.  For existing 

buildings where exterior space may be inadequate, short-term bicycle parking 

may be on the level of the parking garage closest to the ground floor with a 

direct access to a public street. 

1. Location shall be within a convenient distance of, and clearly visible from the main 

entrance to the building as determined by the city, but it shall not be farther than the 

closest automobile parking space. 

2. For buildings with more than one main pedestrian entrance, short term bicycle parking 

shall be split evenly among all main pedestrian entrances. 

3. Signage is required at each building entrance for bicycle parking locating within 

buildings or parking garages. 

a) Long-Term Bicycle Parking. Long-term bicycle parking shall be provided in a 

well- lit, secure location within a convenient distance of a main entrance. A 

secure location is defined as one in which the bicycle parking is: 

1. A bicycle locker, 

2. A lockable bicycle enclosure, 

3. Provided within a lockable room, or 

4. All required long-term bicycle parking spaces shall be sheltered from 

precipitation. 

 

4-8-9  Lighting Requirements: Adequate lighting shall be provided to ensure safe access to 

           bicycle  parking facilities. 



 

4 - 13 

a) Provide a well-lit path from the building entrance to both short-term and long-

term bicycle parking. 

b) Clearly light short-term, long-term parking, and signage. 

c) Use direct “dark sky” compliant lighting that is consistent and glare-free to 

provide even light distribution. 

d) Bicycle parking provided in a structure or under cover shall be illuminated with 

twice the amount of light as auto parking spaces. 

4-8-10  Signage: If required bicycle parking is not visible from the street or main building entrance, 

             a  sign must be posted at the main building entrance indicating the location of the parking.   

             In parking structures, signs shall be installed to indicate the location of the bicycle parking. 

 

4-8-11  Parking Structures: Bicycle parking provided in a structure or under cover shall be:  

 

a) At ground level 

b) free of charge 

c) clearly marked  

d) located in a location that (1) is illuminated with twice the amount of light as 

auto parking spaces, (2) is separated from auto parking by some form of barrier 

to minimize the possibility of parked bicycles being hit by an automobile, 

either, no farther from the vehicular entrance/exit than the nearest vehicular 

parking space OR no farther from the pedestrian entrance/exit than the nearest 

vehicular parking space. 

 

4-8-12  Reduction of Vehicle Parking for Bicycle Parking: The number of required off-street 

             vehicle parking spaces may be reduced where bicycle parking is provided.  

a) Bicycle parking spaces may be used to replace new and existing vehicle 

parking spaces at a ratio of two bicycle parking spaces for every one vehicle 

parking space. 

b) Up to a maximum of 5% of the total vehicle parking spaces required, and 7% of 

the vehicle parking spaces required for uses related to public assembly, may be 

replaced with bicycle parking spaces 

4-8-13  Abandoned Bicycle Policy:  A bicycle shall be deemed abandoned if it has been parked at  

             the same location for seven consecutive calendar days.  The property owner is responsible  

             for the removal of abandoned bicycles.  Abandoned bicycles may be donated to non-profits 

             that reuse  bicycles or may be disposed of in any lawful manner. 

 

4-8-14  Exceptions: Exceptions to the requirement to provide bicycle parking may be allowed in  

             some cases and areas.  Situations where an exception may be made include the following: 
 

a) Where a showing is made that it is physically not feasible to provide bicycle 

parking or in areas where significant levels of cycling are unlikely and where 

alternative means of bicycle parking are likely available.  These exceptions 

may be approved administratively by the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department’s Director or designee. 
b) Where a showing is made that joint bicycle parking facilities are provided for 

two or more establishments. Co-location of bicycle parking facilities at adjacent 

location.  



 

4 - 14 

Amended August 2018 – by adding Lodging/Boarding House 

Amended August 2018 -  CBD nonconforming parking 

Amended August 2017 – Nightclubs, Taverns, Breweries & Distilleries and similar 

                                          establishments 

Amended June 2017 – adding Amplified Entertainment 

Amended March 2016 – Amend Residential Requirements and Fast Food and Sit Down 

                                          Restaurant 

Amended July 2015 –  4-1 (c) and (d) – Compact Car parking 

Amended June 2015 – Added 4-2 (3) Personal Care Home parking 

Amended January 2015 – Added 4-8 

Amended January 2006 Entire Section 4 

 



 

5 - 1 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 

SECTION 5 
 

NONCONFORMING USES 
 

5-1  Repairs and Alterations to Nonconforming Buildings or Structures: 
 

(a) Repairs and alterations may be made up to 50% of the structure valuation as 

assessed by the Richmond County Board of Tax Assessors or its successor, at the 

time the petition is presented. 

(b) No structural alterations will be permitted except as provided for in Section 5-7 of 

this Ordinance. 

(c) No enlargements will be permitted except as provided for in Section 5-7 of this 

Ordinance. 

(d) In the event of destruction by fire or act of God, restoration will be permitted to 

the extent of the original improvements. 

 

5-2 A building or structure nonconforming as to regulations for use or lot area or for dwelling 

units shall  not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless said building or structure 

including such addition and enlargement is made to conform to the use and area in 

accordance with regulations of the zone in which it is located except as provided for in 

Section 5-7 of this Ordinance. 

 

5-3 Continuation and Change of Use: 
 

(a) The nonconforming use of a building or structure, lawfully existing on March 25, 

1963, may be continued. 

(b) The nonconforming use of a nonresidential building or structure may be changed 

only to a use of the same or more restrictive classification, except that any use 

provided for in Section 26 (Special Exception) may be changed only to the same 

use or a use that is permitted by the base zoning.  The nonconforming use of a 

residential structure may not be changed to any use not permitted by the base 

zoning classification.   

(c) The nonconforming use of land (where no building is involved) lawfully existing 

on March 25, 1963, may be continued provided that no nonconforming use of 

land shall be expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining property. 

 

5-4 Expansion Prohibited:  A nonconforming use of a portion of a building or structure 

shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such building or structure nor 

changed except to a conforming use. 

 

5-5 Nonconforming Due to Reclassification:  The foregoing provisions of this section shall 

also apply to buildings, structures, land or uses which hereinafter become nonconforming 

due to any reclassification of zones under this Ordinance or any subsequent change in the 

regulations of this Ordinance. 

 



 

5 - 2 

5-6 Any nonconforming use which has been abandoned for a period of two (2) years or more 

shall not be used for any purpose other than that permitted in the zone in which such use 

is situated. 

 

5-7 Structural Alterations and Enlargement:  An existing nonconforming use may be 

permitted to expand in the district in which it is located upon approval by the Executive 

Director provided that: 

(a) A site plan showing the existing nonconforming land and building(s) and the 

proposed expansion has been submitted for approval; 

(b) The existing nonconforming use is of a type permitted under the B-1 

(Neighborhood Business) Zone, Section 21-1(b), of this Ordinance; 

(c) The enlargement does not exceed twenty (20%) percent of the square footage 

contained within the existing nonconforming structure, the amount of expansion 

permitted to be calculated using the square footage on record with the Richmond 

County Board of Tax Assessors; 

(d) The expansion shall not extend beyond the property lines of the existing 

nonconforming use except where additional land is acquired to meet the off-street 

parking requirements of Section 4 of this Ordinance; 

(e) The expansion is in compliance with all setback and yard requirements of the 

zone in which the nonconforming use is located; 

(f) Off-street parking and loading are provided in accordance with Section 4 of this 

Ordinance; 

(g) The expansion does not involve the construction of any separate structures; and 

(h) No previous expansion has occurred under the provisions of this section. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended June 2013 – Section 5-3(b) 



 

6 - 1 

USE DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 6 
 

 DISTRICT DEFINITIONS 
 

6-1 For the purpose of classifying, regulating, and restricting the locations of trades and 

industries, and the locations of buildings designed for industry, commerce, residence, and 

other uses; Augusta, Georgia, except Hephzibah, Fort Gordon and Blythe, is hereby 

divided into the following Use Districts or Zones, to wit; 

 

  Agricultural Districts, being "A" Zones.  

  Residential Districts, being "R" Zones.  

  Professional Districts, being "P" Zones.  

  Business Districts, being "B" Zones.  

  Industrial Districts, being "I" Zones. 

 

Zone Group Classification:  Whenever the terms "A" Zone, "R" Zone, "P" Zone, "B" 

Zone, or "I" Zone are used, they shall be deemed to refer to all zones containing the same 

letters and/or numbers in their names, e.g. "R" Zone shall include R-1, R-2, R-3;  "R-1" 

Zone shall include R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D and R-1E zones. 

 

6-2 The Use Zones herein above referred to shall be designated on certain zoning maps and 

by reference thereto expressly made a part of this Ordinance.  No building shall be 

erected, nor shall buildings or premises be used for any purposes other than a purpose 

permitted by this Ordinance in a zone in which such buildings or premises are located. 

 

6-3 Zone Boundaries:  Unless otherwise indicated the zone boundaries are the centerlines of 

streets, parkways, waterways, railroad rights-of-way, or such lines extended.



 

7 - 1 

AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 7 
 

 A (AGRICULTURAL) ZONE 
 

7-1 Zone A (Agriculture) Districts:  The area of Zone "A" shall be all of Augusta excepting 

therefrom any and all areas that have been, or may hereafter be, specifically covered by 

other zones created in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance and shown on 

Maps on file with the Augusta Planning and Development Department.  No land, no body 

of water, and no structure shall be put into use and no building shall be hereafter erected, 

constructed, moved, reconstructed, or structurally altered for any purpose in this zone 

(Zone "A") which is designed, arranged or intended to be used or occupied for any 

purpose other than the following: 

(a) Single-family Residential buildings and structures developed under the 

standards set forth in the R-1 Zone (Section 8), except that the maximum 

height of fences, walls, or hedges in any required front, side or rear yards 

of an A (Agriculture) Zone shall be limited to a height of eight (8) feet, 

except for corner yard areas discussed in Section 3-6 of this Ordinance. 

(b) Agriculture, dairying and ranching. 

(c) Buildings incidental to agriculture, dairying and ranching. 

(d) Building incidental to forestry. 

(e) Noncommercial boat piers, or slips, or boat houses for docking of private 

water craft.  

(f) Manufactured homes on individual lots subject to the criteria listed in 

Section 27-7 of this Ordinance. 

(g) Conservation Subdivisions where the overall density of development 

including portions of the tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed .5 

lots per acre. 

(h) Parking of vehicles related to agricultural and forestry enterprises engaged 

in on the same or an adjoining property; 

(i) Parking of no more than two (2) commercial vehicles to include freight 

carrying vehicles, (truck trailers and tractors) in excess of one ton capacity 

and three or more axles on a lot which exceeds one acre in area. 

(j) Flagpole lots, meeting the guidelines of the Land Subdivision Regulations. 

 

7-2. The following may be approved by Special Exception in an A zone if conformance to the 

standards included herein can be demonstrated and if the benefits of the proposed use are 

greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to neighboring properties: 

 

(a)      Recreational vehicle (RV) parks – Subject to restrictions at Section 28-E 

                                   Recreational Vehicle Parks 

 

(b) Animal kennels, boarding of animals, and animal grooming establishments 

provided that the following conditions are met: 

(1) The minimum size of any tract of land proposed for use under this 

section shall be two (2) acres. 

 



 

7 - 2 

(2) No activity permitted under this section shall be conducted within 

four hundred (400) feet of a permanent dwelling or manufactured 

home located on another tract of land.  \ 

 

(3) The applicant for a Special Exception under this section shall 

submit a site plan showing the boundaries of the property to  be 

used,  its dimensions, the location of existing and proposed 

structures to be used for the purpose of this section, and the 

distance from these locations to any dwelling or manufactured 

home located on adjacent tracts of land.  

 

7-3 Special Exceptions 

 Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 7-2 must be 

initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be 

valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by 

the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the 

establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated 

but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall 

no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended February – Section 7-1 (j) 

Amended April 2013 – deleted Section 7-2 (a) 

Amended January 2008 – Section 7-2 (a) 

Amended November 2007, Section 7-2(a)  

Amended May 2005, Section 7-1 (h) (i) 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 7-3 

 



 

8 - 1 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 8 
 

R-1 (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 
 

8-1 Permitted Uses: 
(a)  One family detached dwellings the gross floor area of which is not more than two 

times the average gross floor area or less than 60% of  the average gross floor area 

of existing homes located on lots in whole or in part within 300 feet of the 

boundaries of the subject lot.  Gross floor area shall include the entire area located 

under the roof of the principal structure, including finished attics, attached 

garages, and basements, and it shall be as presented in the online information of 

the Augusta Richmond County Tax Assessor’s Office. 

(b) Fence, walls:  A fence, latticework screen or wall in a required side or rear yard 

shall not exceed six (6) feet in height. A fence, latticework screen or wall located 

in a required front yard shall be limited to four (4) feet in height. Any fence, wall, 

or landscape feature located at the corner of intersecting streets described in 

Section 3-6 of this Ordinance shall be subject to additional restrictions discussed 

in that subsection.   

(c) Yard Sales provided that no more than two (2), lasting no more than three (3) 

days per time, are conducted at a single address during a calendar year.  

(d) Accessory buildings and uses as described elsewhere in this section. 

(e) Conservation Subdivisions where the overall density of development including 

portions of the tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed 3 lots per acre. 

(f)   Residential facilities for handicapped persons as defined at 42 U.S.C. 3602  

       except for such uses that are addressed at 26-1(g), 26-1(p) and 35-10 of this   

       Ordinance. 

 

Prohibited Uses: 

  Flagpole lots shall not be permitted. 

 

8-2 Special Exceptions:  The following may be permitted in an R-1 Zone by Special 

Exceptions: 

(a) Single-family attached and detached dwellings and condominiums developed in 

accordance with Section 13 provided that the density of dwellings shall not 

exceed three (3) units per acre.  

(b) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the 

area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such 

transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the 

boundary of the less restricted zone.  

(c) Ponds, whether impoundment or excavations, in excess of the following 

maximum pond area to lot area ratios may be permitted by Special Exception: 

 

  LOT AREA  MAXIMUM POND/LOT AREA RATIO 

 Less than 2 acres     2% 

  2 - 5 acres    20% 

  Over 5 acres    40% 

 



 

8 - 2 

Ponds smaller than the maximum ratios shall be permitted uses by right. 

Retention or detention ponds approved as part of a Site Plan or Subdivision 

Development Plan shall also be permitted uses by right.  A Grading Plan or a Soil 

Erosion Plan, depending on the size of the disturbed area shall be submitted and 

approved before construction of a pond requiring Special Exception commences.  

Such plan shall include the following statement: 

 

"The pond as shown hereon is the private property of the owner, 

who has full and perpetual responsibility for the maintenance and 

repair.  The owner releases Augusta, Georgia, from any and all 

claims, damages, or demands arising on account of or in 

connection with the design, construction, and maintenance of the 

pond as shown hereon.  Augusta, Georgia, assumes no liability or 

duty related thereto, and in no manner approves or assumes 

liability for the design of the pond as shown hereon." 

 

(d) Construction trailers may be allowed in a subdivision with an approved 

Development Plan subject to the following criteria: 

 

(1) A Manufactured Home Permit must be acquired from the Augusta 

Planning and Development Department for the construction trailer; 

(2) The construction trailer must be located away from the front entrance of 

the subdivision, preferably in the rear of the subdivision, and in the area of 

the last homes to be developed in the subdivision.  The construction trailer 

must be located as far as possible from any existing stick-built residential 

homes in adjoining subdivisions, but in no case shall the construction 

trailer be located within 150 feet of a site-built residential home located in 

an adjoining subdivision; 

(3) No sale of lots or homes is to take place from this construction trailer - the 

construction trailer is to be used for construction related business only; 

(4) The construction trailer is to be tied down, underpinned, have wooden 

steps with hand-rails and have a gravel parking area.  Any outside items 

need to be maintained in a neat and orderly manner; 

(5) The Owner/Developer must provide the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department with the following certification:  "The 

Owner/Developer/Contractor will not hold Augusta, GA liable for any 

claims, damages or demands arising on account of or in connection with 

the placement of the construction trailer within the subdivision."; 

(6) The construction trailer will be moved off of the subject property within 

48 hours of the commencement of the last home in the subdivision - -or 

The construction trailer must me moved off of the subject property within 

48 hours of the expiration of Development Plan approval for the 

subdivision; and 

(7) Inspection will be made by the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department every twelve (12) months. 

 

(e) Sales trailers may be allowed in a subdivision with an approved Development 

Plan subject to the following criteria: 

 



 

8 - 3 

(1) A Manufactured Home Permit must be acquired from the Augusta 

Planning and Development Department for the sales trailer; 

(2) Sales trailers must be located in excess of 500 feet from any public street 

that is not part of the subdivision, and 150 or more feet from a site-built 

residential home located in an adjoining subdivision; 

(3) The sales trailer is to be tied down, underpinned, have wooden steps with 

hand-rails and have a gravel parking area.  Any outside items need to be 

maintained in a neat and orderly manner; 

(4) Areas not left natural or used for parking must be landscaped or sodded; 

(5) The Owner-Developer must provide the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department with the following certification:  "The 

Owner/Developer/ Contractor will not hold Augusta, GA liable for any 

claims, damages or demands arising on account of or in connection with 

the placement of the sales trailer within the subdivision; 

(6) Permits for the sales trailer would be issued for one (1) year and could 

only be renewed at the discretion of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department Staff;  

(7) The sales trailer will be moved off of the subject property within 48 hours 

of the commencement of the last home in the subdivision - or the sales 

trailer must be moved off of the subject property within 48 hours of the 

expiration of Development Plan approval for the subdivision; and 

(8) Inspection will be made by the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department every twelve (12) months in conjunction with the renewal of 

the Mobile Home Permit. 

 

(f) Sales offices may be allowed in new subdivisions with approved Final Plats 

subject to the following criteria: 

 

(1) Sales offices must be located on lots designated on the approved Final 

Plats of new subdivisions, must be for sales of lots within that subdivision 

only, and must adhere to all minimum setback requirements; 

(2) Parking areas for sales offices cannot exceed the normal parking pad for 

the lot/home and must be comparable in size and construction to other 

parking pads in the neighborhood.  The parking pad must be constructed 

prior to issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy; 

(3) For subdivisions requiring sidewalks, the sidewalk on this lot must be 

constructed prior to issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy; 

(4) Areas not left natural or used for parking must be landscaped or sodded 

prior to the Certificate of Occupancy; 

(5) One real estate or developer’s sign less than six square feet in area may be 

allowed on the property.  No banners as defined by Section 28-B-2 of the 

Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance will be allowed on the property; 

(6) Adjoining lots (whether grassed or graveled) may not be used for parking;   

(7) The sales aspect of the sales office will cease and desist within 48 hours of 

the commencement of the last home in the subdivision. 

 

(g )  One family detached dwelling the average gross floor area of which is more than 

two times the average gross floor area or less than 60% of the gross floor area of 

existing homes located on lots in whole or in part within 300 feet of the 



 

8 - 4 

boundaries of the subject lot.  Gross floor area shall include the entire area located 

under the roof of the principal structure, including finished attics, attached 

garages, and basements, and it shall be as presented in the online information of 

the Augusta, Georgia Tax Assessor’s Office. 

 

 

8-3  Home Occupations:   

 

a) Intent.  The conduct of businesses in residential units may be permitted under the 

provisions of this section.  It is the intent of this section to: 

1) ensure the compatibility of home occupations with other uses permitted in 

residential districts; 

 2) maintain and preserve the character of residential neighborhoods; and 

3) permit certain limited home occupations which are useful to both the 

general community as well as the resident-proprietor. 

 

b) Required Conditions.  A home occupation is an activity carried out for gain by a 

resident conducted as an accessory use in the resident's dwelling unit subject to 

the following conditions: 

1) Home occupations shall be limited to personal services such as are 

furnished by a music teacher, artist, beautician, seamstress, and in-house 

offices; 

2) Home occupations shall not include retail businesses, manufacturing 

businesses nor repair businesses; 

3) Home occupations shall be situated in the same dwelling unit as the home 

of the occupant, and the individual responsible for the home occupation 

shall live in the dwelling unit; 

4) The home occupation shall not occupy nor affect more than twenty-five 

percent (25%) of the heated floor area of the dwelling unit.  It shall be 

carried on wholly within the principal building constituting the dwelling 

unit.  No home occupation nor any storage of goods, materials, or products 

conducted with a home occupation shall be allowed in an accessory 

building, garage, carport, or porch, attached or detached. 

5) There shall be no exterior indication of the home occupation; no exterior 

signs nor other on-site advertising visible from the exterior; no audible  

 noise, detectable vibration, inordinate illumination, no odor; no entrance 

or exit way specifically provided for the conduct of business; and  

vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall not be generated in volumes greater 

than would normally be expected by a single family residence. 

6) For home occupations established after November 15, 1983 there shall be 

no assistants employed.  Home occupations established prior to that date 

may have two assistants. 

7) Where special equipment is used the Building Code of Augusta, Georgia 

shall govern the size of electrical wiring, plumbing, etc., which must be 

installed before such home occupation may begin. 

8) When a home occupation is to be conducted on property not owned by the 

applicant or operator, written permission from the owner is required. 

 



 

8 - 5 

c) Special Use Permits.  All home occupations shall have Special Use Permits.  

Special Use Permits shall be granted upon payment of a fee and a finding that a 

proposed home occupation would conform to the conditions at 8-3(b) and that no 

detrimental impact upon the surrounding residential area would be expected. 

 

1) Special Use Permits may be granted administratively by the Executive 

Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department for certain 

home occupations such as computer, telephone, or mail based businesses 

or offices, or other similar businesses where, in the opinion of the 

Executive Director, there is no potential for customers to visit the 

residence, or for excessive mail, truck or other material deliveries to the 

residence. 

2) For all other home occupations, Special Use Permits shall be granted by 

the Board of Zoning Appeals. 

3) Applications for all Special Use Permits for home occupations shall be 

made with the Augusta Planning and Development Department. 

4) Special Use Permits shall be granted to a designated person who resides at 

a residential address, and they shall not be transferable from person to 

person, address to address, or use to use. 

5) Special Use Permits, once granted, may be revoked by the Augusta 

Commission upon advisement by the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department for cause after a hearing before the former commission. 

6) An individual granted a Special Use Permit for a home occupation has a 

period of one year from the date of approval to begin operation of the 

home occupation.  Prior to beginning operation of the home occupation a 

business license must be obtained.  Anyone that fails to begin operation of 

the home occupation within one year time period forfeits the home 

occupation right previously granted. 

7) A Special Use Permit may be denied if a home occupation could be  

hazardous or injurious to the welfare of the community or if compliance 

with the requirements of this section has not been met. 

 

d) Family day care homes - may be granted Special Use Permit administratively by 

staff as provided for at 8-3(c)(1) if they conform to the criteria set at 8-3(b), 26-

1(f), and the following special criteria. Those applicants for family day care 

homes that conform to 8-3(b) and 26-1(f) but do not conform to the special 

criteria may be approved by Special Exception as provided for in Section 26. 

Special criteria for staff approval of Family Day Care Homes are: 

 

i. Applicant must live in the home 

ii. Home has public sewerage or applicant has a letter of approval 

from the Richmond County Board of Health 

iii. Home is not in the floodplain 

iv. Applicant must provide proof of application for registration from 

the Georgia Department of Human Resources Day Care Licensing 

Unit 

 

 



 

8 - 6 

v. The lot on which the family day care home would be located is 

10,000 square feet in area or greater 

vi. Hours of operation would not be greater than 6:00 A.M. to 8:00 

P.M. 

vii. No persons listed with Richmond County Sex Offenders Registry 

reside within 1,000 feet of the property. 

 

8-4 Accessory Building:  Accessory buildings not more than one (1) story and no more than 

18 feet in height as measured in Section 2: “Building Height.” The accessory structure 

shall not be taller than the primary structure when viewed from the street. Accessory 

structures may be constructed in the R-1 Zone, subject to the following restrictions: 

 

(a) All accessory buildings shall have the side yard setback required for principal 

structures as specified elsewhere in this Ordinance. 

(b) All accessory buildings shall have a rear yard setback of not less than ten (10) 

feet, including eaves and other overhanging portions of the structure. 

(c) Except for carports and detached garages, accessory buildings shall not permitted 

in any front yard.  Carports and freestanding garages shall conform to the front 

setback requirements for principal structures. 

(d) Where the rear yard abuts upon a street, no accessory building shall be closer to 

the rear lot line than the required setback for the zone.  

(e) That the maximum total gross floor area of all accessory buildings on a lot shall 

be based on the area of the lot upon which they are located.  The maximum gross 

floor area for accessory buildings shall be as follows: 

 

Lot Area   Maximum Accessory Building Area 

  Under 10,000 square feet   5% of lot area 

 

  10,000 square feet or larger  greater of 500 square feet or 3% of  

       lot area, but never more than 1,200 

       square feet 

(f) Accessory buildings shall not be designed and used for residential purposes.  

They shall not contain sleeping, bathing or cooking facilities. If an accessory 

building contains cooking facilities of any description, then a deed restriction 

must be recorded stating that the accessory building is not a residential structure 

and can never be occupied s such before a permit may be issued.  Accessory 

buildings may not be used to conduct home occupations or serve as home offices. 

In no case may an accessory building have a separate electrical service. 

 

 

8-5 DELETED. 

 

8-5.1 TV Satellite Dish Antenna As An Accessory Use:  TV Satellite dish antennas shall be 

permitted as an accessory use in the R-1 Zone.  All TV satellite dish antennas shall 

adhere to the setback requirements for accessory structures, except that no regulated 

satellite dish antenna may be located in any front yard. TV Satellite dishes less than one 

(1) meter in diameter shall not be regulated.  

 



 

8 - 7 

8-6 Height:  No building or structure hereafter shall be erected, constructed or altered in an 

R-1 Zone to exceed a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) stories or forty-five (45) feet.  

 

8-7 Area:  Every lot in an R-1 Zone shall have a minimum width of one hundred (100) feet 

and minimum area of 15,000 square feet.  Irregularly-shaped lots shall measure a 

minimum of one hundred feet in width along the building setback line. 

 

8-8 Setbacks: 
(a) Front Setback:  There shall be a front yard setback in an R-1 Zone of not less than 

thirty (30) feet from any structure to the front lot line on minor or local streets and 

a front setback of forty (40) feet from any structure to the front lot line on all 

other streets and highways.  For lots in Residential Subdivisions, approved after 

adoption of this Section, where a sixty (60) foot or greater right-of-way is utilized 

and such lots are approved by the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department, there shall be a front setback or not less than twenty-five (25) feet 

from any structure to the front lot line on minor or local streets. 

 

Where a lot is situated in a block face with non-uniform front setbacks, the 

minimum front setback requirement on such lot shall be the average of the front 

yards of the existing structures on the block face.  In the event the average front 

setbacks of the block face exceed fifty (50) feet, there shall be no setback 

requirement greater than a distance of fifty (50) feet from the front of the building 

to the front lot line.  If there are less than two (2) existing structures located 

within 500 feet on either side of the lot in question, then the provisions regarding 

non-uniform lots shall not apply. 

 

 (b) Side Setback:  The side yard setback for principal structures in an R-1 Zone are as 

follows:   

(1) Lots having a width of fifty-five (55) feet or less shall have two (2) side 

yards each having a width of not less than five (5) feet. 

(2) Lots having a width of fifty-six (56) to seventy (70) feet shall have two (2) 

side yards each having a width of not less than seven (7) feet. 

(3) Lots having a width of over seventy (70) feet shall have two (2) side yards 

each having a width of not less than ten (10) feet. 

(c) Rear Setback: There shall be a rear yard setback for lots in an R-1 Zone of not 

less than twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot but such yard need not 

exceed fifty (50) feet.   

 

8-9  Lot Coverage:  Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of a lot in an R-1 Zone 

 may be covered by buildings or structures, provided that such lot coverage need not be 

 reduced to eight hundred (800) square feet. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

8 - 8 

 

 

 

8-10 Special Exceptions 

 

 Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 8-2 must be 

 initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be 

 valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by 

 the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the 

 establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated 

 but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall 

 no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended – February 2018 – Section 8-1 –prohibited uses 

Amended – January 2017 – Section 8-4 

Amended June 2008 – Section 8-3-(d) 

Amended August 2008 - Section 8-1 (a) 

Amended June 2008 – Section 8-1 (f) 

Amended January 2008 – Section 8 – 4 (e) (f) 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 8-10 

 



 

9 - 1 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 9 
 

R-1A (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 
 

9-1 Permitted Uses: 
(a) Any use permitted in an R-1 Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the 

R-1 Zone; and 

(b) All the provisions and regulations which apply to the R-1 (One-family Zone) shall 

apply to the R-1A Zone, except that every lot in an R-1A Zone shall have a 

minimum width of eighty (80) feet and a minimum area of ten thousand (10,000) 

square feet.  

(c) Conservation Subdivisions where the overall density of development including 

portions of the tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed 4 lots per acre. 

 

9-2 Special Exception:  The following may be permitted in an R-1A Zone by Special 

Exception:  

(a) Single-family attached and detached dwellings and condominiums developed in 

accordance with Section 13, provided that the density of dwellings shall not 

exceed four (4) units per acre. 

(b)  Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the 

area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such 

transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the 

boundary of the less restricted zone. 

 

9-3 Special Exceptions 

 Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 9-2 must be 

initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be 

valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by 

the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the 

establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated 

but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall 

no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 9-3 

Amended Jan. 2005 – Section 9-2(a) 

 



 

10 - 1 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 10 
 

R-1B (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 
 

10-1 Permitted Uses 

(a) Any use permitted in the R-1A Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of 

the R-1A Zone; 

(b) All the provisions and regulations which apply to the R-1A Zone shall apply to 

the R-1B Zone, except that every lot in the R-1B Zone shall have a minimum 

width of seventy-five (75) feet and a minimum area of 7,500 square feet; and 

(c) Conservation subdivisions where the overall density of development, including 

portions of a tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed 5 lots per acre. 

 

10-2 Special Exception:  The following may be  permitted in an R-1B Zone by Special 

Exception: 

(a) Single-family attached and detached dwellings and condominiums developed in 

accordance with Section 13, provided that the density of dwellings shall not 

exceed five and one-half (5-1/2) units per acre. 

(b) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the 

area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such 

transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the 

boundary of the less restricted zone. 

 

10-3 Special Exceptions 

 Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 10-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer 

be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license 

by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of 

the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 10-3 

Amended Jan. 2005 – Section 10-2(a)  

 



 

11 - 1 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 11 
 

R-1C (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 
 

11-1 Permitted Uses 

(a) Any use permitted in the R-1B Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of 

the R-1B Zone; 

(b) All the provisions and regulations which apply to the R-1B Zone shall apply to 

the R-1C Zone, except that every lot in the R-1C Zone shall have a minimum 

width of sixty (60) feet and a minimum area of 6,000 square feet; and 

(c) Conservation subdivisions where the overall density of development, including 

portions of a tract devoted to greenspace does not exceed 7 lots per acre. 

 

11-2 Special Exception:  The following may be permitted in an R-1C Zone by Special 

Exception: 

(a) Single-family attached and detached dwellings and condominiums developed in 

accordance with Section 13, provided that the density of dwellings shall not 

exceed seven (7) units per acre.  

(b) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the 

area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such 

transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the 

boundary of the less restricted zone. 

 

11-3 Special Exceptions 

 Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 11-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer 

be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license 

by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of 

the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 11-3 

Amended Jan. 2005, Section 11-2 (a) 

 



 

12 - 2 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 12 
 

R-1D (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 
 

12-1 Permitted Uses:  The following uses may be permitted in an R-1D district upon 

determination by the Augusta Planning and Development Department that a request 

conforms to the requirements of this Section, that it is compatible with surrounding 

development, and that it promotes the planning policies and objectives for the specific 

and general areas in which it is located:  

 (a) Any use permitted in Sections 8 through 11 of this Ordinance. 

(b) Single-family attached dwellings in groups of two joined at a common lot line.  

(c) Common open space or recreational areas and uses intended for the primary use 

and enjoyment of the residents of the proposed development. 

 (d) Single-family detached dwellings. 

 

12-2 Lot Size:  Every lot in an R-1D Zone shall have a minimum width of forty feet and a 

minimum area of four thousand (4,000) square feet.  

 

12-3 Setbacks:    
(a) Front Setback:  On arterial, collector, industrial or major streets and highways, the 

minimum setback in the R-1D Zone shall be the same as Section 8-8 (a).  On local 

or minor streets, the minimum setback in the R-1D zone shall be 15 feet to the 

front lot line. 

 (b) Side Setback:  All detached dwellings shall have a side setback not less than five 

feet. Where a side yard abuts a zone described in Sections 8 through 11 of this 

Ordinance, no structure may be constructed within 25 feet of the boundary of that 

zone.  If a six foot brick or stucco wall is constructed beginning at the front 

setback line and extending along the entire side property line adjoining the zone 

described in Sections 8 through 11 of this Ordinance, then the required setback 

shall be fifteen (15) feet. Where a side yard abuts a public street the provisions for 

front setbacks shall apply. 

(c) Rear Yard: The rear setback shall be the greater of twenty-five (25) feet or twenty 

(20) percent of the depth of the lot, but such yard need not exceed fifty (50) feet. 

 

12-4 Building Height:  No building or structure shall be constructed in an R-1D Zone to 

exceed a height of two and a half (2-1/2) stories or forty-five (45) feet. 

 

12-5 Parking: A minimum of two (2) parking spaces for each dwelling unit shall be provided 

in the R-1D Zone. 

 

12-6 Lot Coverage: There shall be no maximum lot coverage in the R-1D Zone. 

 

12-7 Application for Approval:  All applications for development or a change of zoning to an 

R-1D Zone shall be accompanied by the following:  

(a) A plat of the land to be included in the total development showing all rights-of-

way and easements affecting the property to be rezoned to an R-1D classification.  



 

12 - 3 

(b) A plat of the lots and the boundaries thereof along with the square footage 

contained in each lot and the location and rights-of-way of proposed streets in the 

total development. 

(c) The location of buildings and the number of stories contained in each. 

(d) The preliminary location of water supply, sanitary, and storm sewer systems. 

 (e) The location of all curb cuts, driving lanes and parking areas. 

(f) The location and type of all common areas (pedestrian walkways, open spaces, 

recreational uses), including a statement of the method to be used to insure 

continued maintenance of such areas.  

 (g) The location and height of all walls, fences and screen plantings.  

(h) A typical tentative plan showing front elevations of the proposed dwellings 

including a tentative statement indicating the type of construction to be used.  

(i) A tabulation of the total area, number of dwelling units, and overall density per 

acre. 

 

12-8 Revision of Plans After Final Approval:  Any request to change an approved 

development plan which affects the intent and character of the development, the density 

or land use pattern, the location or dimension of streets, or similar changes, shall follow 

the procedures set forth in Section 35 of this Ordinance.  A request for revision of the 

development plan shall be supported by a written statement of why the revisions are 

necessary or desirable. 

 

12-9 Compliance with Subdivision Regulations:  The development shall comply with the 

pertinent requirements of the Subdivision  Regulations for Augusta, Georgia. 

 

12-10.  Buffer Yard: A 10 foot wide buffer yard which meets the requirements of the Augusta  

Tree Ordinance as it pertains to side buffer yards is required along an entire side or rear  

boundary of the proposed development if: 

 

(a) The proposed average lot size for the proposed development is less than 80% of the 

average of the size of existing residential lots within 300 feet of a  side or rear 

boundary of the proposed development; or 

(b) The proposed average lot size for the development is less than 80% of the minimum 

lot size permitted by the zoning classification of property within 300 feet of a side or 

rear boundary of the proposed development if such property is undeveloped but zoned 

single family residential or agricultural. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended January 2008 – Section 12-10 

Amended September 2007 – Section 12-3 (a) 

 



 

13 - 1 

 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 13 
 

R-1E (ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 
 

Statement of Intent:  The intent of this section is to allow greater flexibility in the integration of 

various types of owner-occupied housing. 

 

13-1 Permitted Uses:  The following uses may be permitted in an R-1E district upon 

determination by the Augusta Planning and Development Department that a request 

conforms to the requirements of this Section, that it is compatible with surrounding 

development, and that it promotes the planning policies and objectives for the specific 

and general areas in which it is located: 

 (a)  Any use permitted in Sections 8 through 12 of this Ordinance. 

(b) Single-family attached dwellings (condominiums or subdivisions). 

 (c) Multi-family condominium structures. 

 

13-2 Lot Size:  There shall be no minimum lot size or lot width in the R-1E Zone.  

 

13-3 Setbacks: 
(a) Front Setback:  On arterial, collector, industrial or major streets and highways, the 

minimum setback in the R-1E Zone shall be the same as Section 8-8 (a).  On local 

or minor streets, the minimum setback in the R-1E zone shall be 15 feet to the 

front lot line. 

(b) Side Setback:  The side setback provisions of Section 12 of this Ordinance shall 

apply to the R-1E Zone. 

(c) Rear Setback:  The rear setback provisions of Section 12 of this Ordinance shall 

apply to the R-1E Zone.   

 

13-4 Coverage:  There shall be no maximum lot coverage in the R-1E Zone. 

 

13-5 Building Height:  No building or structure shall be erected or constructed in an R-1E 

Zone to exceed a height of two and one-half (2-1/2 ) stories or forty-five (45) feet. 

 

13-6 Building Length:  There shall be no continuous residential structures such as 

townhouses, attached dwellings, or multifamily dwellings containing more than eight (8) 

dwelling units.  

 

13-7 DELETED. 

 

13-8 Density Requirements:  The maximum number of dwelling units per acre permitted in 

the R-1E Zone shall be ten (10).  The number of units allowable shall be computed by 

multiplying the total acreage of the tract by ten (10). 

 

13-9 Open Space Requirement:  Not less than twenty-five (25) percent of the development 

shall be maintained as permanent open space. Such open space may include common 

areas, buffers, landscaped yards, water areas and any natural areas. Such open space shall 



 

13 - 2 

 

be computed beginning five (5) feet outside the building walls. Parking and other paved 

surfaces, except patios and courtyards, shall not count toward this open space 

requirement. Any required open space may be left under individual ownership if it falls 

on an individual lot, but a property owners' association shall maintain any common area 

not dedicated to the Augusta-Richmond County Commission. Restrictive covenants, 

declarations and restrictions running with the land shall provide for access across and 

permanent maintenance and protection of the common  space within these requirements.  

 

 Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area. 

 

13-10 Off-Street Parking Regulations: 
(a) A minimum of two (2) parking spaces for each dwelling unit shall be provided in 

the R-1E Zone. 

(b) Where off-street parking is arranged so as to require backing from more than four 

contiguous spaces directly onto a public street, the minimum parking space 

dimensions shall be ten (10) feet in width and twenty-five (25) feet in length.  

(c) No off-street parking shall be arranged so as to require backing from a space 

directly into a collector or an arterial street. 

 

13-11 Application for Approval:  All applications for development or a change of zoning to an 

R-1E Zone shall be accompanied by the following:  

(a) A plat of the land to be included in the total development showing all rights-of-

way and easements affecting the property to be rezoned to an R-1E classification.  

(b) A plat of the lots and the boundaries thereof along with the square footage 

contained in each lot and the location and rights-of-way of proposed streets. 

(c) The location of buildings and the number of stories contained in each. 

(d) The preliminary location of water supply, sanitary and storm sewer systems. 

 (e) The location of all curb cuts, driving lanes and parking areas.  

(f) The location and type of all common areas (pedestrian walkways, open spaces, 

recreational uses) including a statement of the method to be used to insure 

continued maintenance of such areas.  

 (g) The location and height of all walls, fences and screen plantings. 

(h) A typical tentative plan showing elevations of the proposed dwellings, including a 

tentative statement indicating the type of construction to be used. 

(i) A tabulation of the total area, number of dwelling units, and overall density per 

acre. 

 

13-12 Revision of Plans After Final Approval: Any request to change an approved 

development plan which affects the intent and character of the development, the density 

or land use pattern, the location or dimension of streets, or similar changes, shall follow 

the procedures set forth in Section 35 of this Ordinance. A request for revision of the 

development plan shall be supported by a written statement of why the revisions are 

necessary or desirable. 

 

13-13 Compliance with Subdivision Regulations: The development shall comply with the 

pertinent requirements of the Subdivision Regulations for Augusta. 

 

13-14.  Buffer Yard: A 10 foot wide buffer yard which meets the requirements of the Augusta 



 

13 - 3 

 

Tree Ordinance as it pertains to side buffer yards is required along an entire side or rear 

boundary of the proposed development if: 

(a)  The proposed average lot size for the proposed development is less than 80% of the 

average of the size of existing residential lots within 300 feet of a side or rear boundary 

of the proposed development; or 

(b) The proposed average lot size for the development is less than 80% of the minimum 

lot size permitted by the zoning classification of property within 300 feet of a side or rear 

boundary of the proposed development if such property is undeveloped but zoned single 

family residential or agricultural. 

 

13-15. Special Exception:  The following may be permitted in an R-1E Zone by Special 

Exception: 

 

The R-1E Village Green Development is intended for urban infill or urban redevelopment 

in an area defined as the “Old City Limits” of Augusta GA (and as found on the GIS 

Maps for Augusta, Georgia). 

 

Single-family attached and detached dwellings and townhouses developed in accordance 

with this subsection, provided that the density of dwellings shall not exceed five and one-

half (5 ½) units per acre, and subject to the following provisions. 

 

Size of Tract: The maximum size of any tract to be developed pursuant to this Ordinance 

shall be two (2) acres and the overall tract shall have permanent paved access to a paved 

public road or a road to be paved and dedicated to the public. 

 

Lot Size:  There shall be no minimum lot size or lot width. 

 

Lot Coverage:  There shall be no maximum lot coverage. 

 

Density Limit:  The maximum density of development shall be five and one-half (5 ½) 

units per acre. 

 

Building Height: The maximum height of a building shall not exceed two and one-half 

(2 ½) stories or forty-five (45) feet from the finished grade. 

 

Building Length:  There shall be no continuous residential structures such as 

townhouses, attached dwellings, or multifamily dwellings containing more than two (2) 

dwelling units. 

 

Building Setbacks: 

 

a) Front Setback: There shall be a front yard setback of no more than twenty (20) feet 

from any structure to an adjoining street or other public right-of-way. Front 

setbacks may be utilized along the Village Green as long as there is a designated 

twenty (20) foot rear setback elsewhere on the lot. Zero lot-line development is 

permitted within front setbacks where utilities are not present prohibiting zero lot-

line development. 



 

13 - 4 

 

 

 

b) Side Setbacks: There shall be a side yard setback of not less than five (5) feet 

between structures. Zero lot-line development is permitted provided that a 

reciprocal access easement is recorded for both of the single-family lots and 

townhouses or other attached dwellings, and provided that all dwellings have 

pedestrian access to the rear yard through means other than the principal structure. 

 

c) There shall be a rear yard setback of not less than twenty (20) feet from any 

principal structure to an adjoining property. 

 

Parking Setbacks: 

  

a)   There shall be a setback of not less than twenty (20) feet from any guest parking 

  area  to  an adjoining public right-of-way. 

 

b) There shall be a setback of not less than twenty (20) feet from any guest parking 

area to an adjoining property zoned or used for residential use. 

 

Development and Performance Standards: 

 

a) Buildings: 

 

a. All buildings shall be oriented toward street frontage or the Village Green 

unless an exception is granted to improve the site design. 

 

b. The architectural features, materials, and the articulation of a facade of a 

building shall be continued on all sides visible from a public street or 

courtyard. 

 

c. The front facade shall not be oriented to face directly toward a parking lot. 

 

d. Porches, pent roofs, roof overhangs, hooded front doors or other similar 

architectural elements shall define the front entrance to all residences. 

 

e. An accessory structure may be placed on a single-family detached residential 

lot not to exceed 120 square feet or 18 feet total in height.  All accessory 

structures shall have no less than 5-foot side and rear setbacks, including 

eaves and other overhanging portion of the structure, and may not be located 

adjacent to the Village Green or within 20 feet of any existing or proposed 

public street.  Accessory structures within view of any existing or proposed 

public street must be screened from view of the existing or proposed public 

street by trees or vegetative screening that will reach a minimum of 8 foot in 

height within three years of being planted. 

 

 



 

13 - 5 

 

f. A variety of architectural features and building materials is encouraged to give 

each building or group of buildings a distinct character. 

 

b) Parking: Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the 

requirements set forth in Section 4 of this Ordinance. 

 

c) Streets: Newly designed internal streets intended to be dedicated to Augusta, 

Georgia, as well as any newly designed private streets, shall conform to the 

requirements of the Street and Road Design Technical Manual with two way streets  

being a minimum of 50’ right-of-way and 32’ back of curb to back of curb or 

internal one-way streets, designed to be no longer than 500 feet in length and serve 

no more than 8 lots, must have a 32’ right-of-way and 20’ of paving (24’ back of 

curb to back of curb).  Utility corridors on internal one-way streets, may be 

approved, on a case-by-case basis, by Augusta Engineering and Augusta Utilities. 

 

As part of the rezoning request, internal one-way streets, being a length of no 

longer than 500 feet and serving no more than 8 lots, may be approved, on a case-

by-case basis, by Augusta Planning and Development Department, Augusta 

Engineering Division, Augusta Utilities, and the Augusta Fire Department.  All 

sub-grade, base and paving for internal one-way streets, whether public or private, 

must conform to current City of Augusta standards and specifications, at the time 

of construction.  No parking signs will be required on internal one-way streets. 

 

Approval of internal one-way streets having a 32’ right-of-way and 20’ of paving, 

(24’ back of curb to back of curb), by City staff, does not guarantee that the City of 

Augusta will take these streets into their maintenance system. 

 

For private one-way streets, a draft of the Home Owners Association documents 

shall be submitted indicating responsibility for maintenance of private one-way 

streets, common areas, parking areas or any other commonly held areas of the 

Village Green development not deeded to the City of Augusta. 

 

 

d) Signage: Subdivision signage shall be provided in accordance with the 

requirements set forth in Section 28-B-7-A of this ordinance. 

 

e) Landscaping and Buffers: Internal landscaping must be provided for on the 

development plan for the Village Green Development.   

 

All buffers required as a condition of this zoning must be a minimum of 10 feet in 

width and shall include a large tree 40-foot on center with vegetative plantings in 

between trees that will provide a year-round visual screen that is at least 8 feet in 

height.  If the buffer is required to have a privacy fence, then the fence shall consist 

of a 6-foot solid board of “shadowbox style” wood fence, or a masonry wall, that 

has two finished sides, unless a fence or wall already exists on the adjoining 

property that meets the requirement set forth in this Ordinance.  

 



 

13 - 6 

 

f) Green Infrastructure / Low Impact Development Requirements: All land 

developed under this Ordinance should incorporate Green Infrastructure / Low 

Impact Development into the design to improve water quality and water quantity.  

Sites discharging into receiving waterbodies listed on the current State 303d list 

shall implement stormwater runoff reduction practices to reduce discharge 

volumes to those waterbodies.  Runoff reduction practices shall be sized and 

designed to retain the first 1.0 inch of rainfall on the site to the maximum extent 

practical.  If the reduction cannot be obtained due to site constraints, then the 

remaining runoff from the 1.2 inch rainfall event must be treated by Best 

Management Practices (BMPs) to remove a minimum of 80% of the calculated 

post-development total suspended solids (TSS) loading leaving the site. 

 

 

Village Green Requirement:  
 

a) A minimum of one-half acre, or twenty percent (20%) of the tract,  shall be 

dedicated to common open / recreation space, hereafter referred to as the Village 

Green. Front, side and rear yards, required buffers and landscaped areas and 

parking and other paved surfaces, shall not count as part of the Village Green. 

 

b) The Village Green shall be centrally located within the development and accessible 

by all residents. 

 

c) The Village Green may include landscaping, active and passive recreation features, 

water features and any natural areas. 

  

d) All building lots must be adjacent to, have clear views of, or be connected to the 

Village Green by sidewalks.  All lots shall be provided with five-foot wide 

sidewalks, per Augusta, Georgia standards and specifications, which must 

interconnect all lots and connect to the five-foot wide sidewalk accessing and 

surrounding the Village Green. The sidewalk accessing the Village Green must be 

per Augusta GA standards and specifications. 

 

e) A property owners' association shall maintain the Village Green. Restrictive 

covenants, declarations and restrictions running with the land shall provide for 

access across and permanent maintenance and protection of the Village Green. 

Circulation System: 

 

a) Motor Vehicle Circulation. Motor vehicle circulation shall be designed to 

minimize conflicts with pedestrians and bicycles. Traffic calming features such as 

“queuing streets,” curb extensions, traffic circles, and medians may be used to 

encourage slow traffic speeds. 

 

b) Pedestrian Circulation. Convenient pedestrian circulation systems that minimize 

pedestrian-motor vehicle conflicts shall be provided continuously throughout the 

development. Where feasible, any existing pedestrian routes through the site shall 



 

13 - 7 

 

be preserved and enhanced. The following provisions also apply: 

 

1. All lots shall be provided with five-foot wide sidewalks, per Augusta, Georgia 

standards and specifications, which must interconnect with all other sidewalks 

within the development, including the sidewalk accessing and surrounding the 

Village Green. All sidewalks must be per Augusta GA standards and 

specifications. 

 

2. Clear and well-lighted sidewalks, five-feet in width, and per Augusta, Georgia 

standards and specifications, shall connect all dwelling entrances to the 

adjacent public sidewalk. 

 

3. Sidewalks and all mandated handicap access shall comply with the applicable 

requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). 

 

4. Intersections of sidewalks with streets shall be designed with clearly defined 

edges, such as curb extensions. Crosswalks shall be well lit and clearly 

marked with contrasting paving materials at the edges or with striping. 

 

5. Sidewalks and handicap access, per Augusta GA standards and specifications, 

must be provided for on any existing arterial or collector street if the 

subdivision is adjacent to an existing street that is classified as an arterial or 

collector road.  

Off-Street Parking Regulations: 

 

(a) A minimum of 2.25 – 2.5 off-street parking spaces for each dwelling unit shall be 

provided. Guest parking must be delineated on the plan at the time of 

application for rezoning. 

 

(b) No off-street parking shall be arranged so as to require backing from a space 

directly on to a public street, except for individual residential lot driveways. 

 

(c) Compliance is required with all other applicable provisions of Section 4 of this 

ordinance. 

Application for Approval:  All applications for a Special Exception in the R-1E zone 

shall be accompanied by the following:  

 

a) A plat of the land to be included in the total development showing all rights-of-

way and easements affecting the property.  

 

b) A plat of the lots and the boundaries thereof along with the square footage 

contained in each lot and the location and rights-of-way of proposed streets and 

sidewalks. 

 

c) The location of buildings and the number of stories contained in each. 



 

13 - 8 

 

 

d) The preliminary location of water supply, sanitary and storm sewer systems. 

 

e)  The location of all curb cuts, driving lanes and parking areas. 

  

f) The location, dimensions, size and features of the Village Green.  

 

g) The location and height of all walls, fences and screen plantings. 

 

h) A pattern book, illustrative guide or similar document that includes elevation 

drawings of the proposed dwellings and all exterior materials and finishes. 

 

i) A tabulation of the total area, number of dwelling units, and overall density per 

acre. 

 

Revision of Plans After Final Approval: The Director of Planning and Development 

may approve minor revisions to the approved development plan which do not affect the 

intent and character of the development, the density or land use pattern, or similar 

changes. Any request to change an approved development plan which affects the intent 

and character of the development, the density or land use pattern, or similar changes, 

shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 35 of this Ordinance. A request for 

revision of the development plan shall be supported by a written statement of why the 

revision(s) are necessary or desirable. 

 

Compliance with Subdivision Regulations: The development shall comply with the 

pertinent requirements of the Subdivision Regulations for Augusta. 

 

Internal Streets / Roadways:  Internal streets and roadways must  conform to the Street 

and Road Design Technical Manual or be classified as an internal one way street pursuant 

to the Ordinance.  Easements for utility corridors may be provided along the front of all 

lots adjacent to streets and roadways, as applicable or as needed; however, zero (0) lot 

lines may not be feasible on these lots. 

 

Easements:  Additional easements for drainage of the area to be subdivided, may be 

required on side and rear lot lines as part of the overall design and shall be of suitable size 

necessary to permit proper construction and maintenance of the drainage facilities 

required to properly drain the property.  Drainage easements shall be a minimum width of 

ten (10) feet, provided, however, that easements up to fifty (50) feet may be required, if 

in the opinion of the Engineering Department, such easements are necessary in the public 

interest. Easements shall center along or be adjacent to a common property line where 

practicable. No structures of any kind may be located within drainage or utility easements 

or over any drainage or utility lines or mains. 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

13 - 9 

 

 

 Special Exceptions 

  

Any use established as a result of a special exception granted per Subsection 13 must be 

initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be 

valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by 

the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the 

establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is initiated 

but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special Exception shall no 

longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended March 2017 – Add 13-15 

Amended January 2008 – Section 13-14 

Amended January 2008 – Section 13-14 

 



 

14 - 1 

 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 14 
 

R-MH (MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 
 

14-1 Permitted Uses: 
(a) Any use permitted in the R-1 (One-family) Zone, subject to the restrictions and 

regulations of the R-1 Zone. 

(b) Manufactured Home Parks in accordance with the requirements of Section 27 of 

this Ordinance. 

(c) Manufactured Homes on individual lots in accordance with the provisions of 

Section 27 of this Ordinance. 

(d)       Flagpole lots, meeting the guidelines of the Land Subdivision Regulations. 

 

14-2 Height:  The height provisions of the R-1 (One-family) Zone shall apply.  

 

14-3 Area:  Every lot in an R-MH (Manufactured Home Residential) Zone where 

public sewer is to be used shall be 15,000 square feet.  Every lot in an R-MH 

(Manufactured Home Residential) Zone where an individual sewage disposal 

system is to be used shall be developed in accordance with the provisions of the 

Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Ordinance.  The minimum lot (space) 

area for manufactured home parks shall also be developed in accordance with the 

provisions of the Groundwater Recharge Area. 

 

14-4 Lot Width:  The minimum lot width in the R-MH zone is 100 feet.  For Manufactured 

Home Parks the requirements shall be as set forth in Section 27 of this Ordinance. 

 

14-5 Setbacks: Front, side, and rear yard setback requirements shall be the same as for the R-1 

(One-family) Zone. 

 

14-6 Lot Coverage: The lot coverage in the R-MH (Manufactured Home Residential)  Zone 

shall not be more than forty percent (40%). 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended February 2018 – Section 14-1 (d) 

Amended September 2005 – Sections 14-3 & 14-4 



 

14 - 2 

 

 

14-2




 

15 - 1 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 15 
 

R-2 (TWO-FAMILY) ZONE 
 

15-1 Permitted Uses:  
(a) Any use permitted in the R-1 (One-family Residential) Zone, subject to the 

restrictions and regulations of the R-1 Zone. 

 (b) Two-family Dwellings.  

 

15-2  Special Exception:  The following may be permitted in a R-2 Zone by Special 

Exception. 

(a) deleted May 2012 

(b) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the 

area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such 

transitional use does not extend more than one (100) feet from the boundary of the 

less restricted zone. 

 

15-3 Height:  The height provisions of the R-1 Zone shall apply to the R-2 (Two-family 

Residential) Zone. 

 

15-4 Area: 

(a) Size of Tract:  The maximum size of any tract to be zoned and developed under 

an R-2 Zone shall be one (1) acre. 

(b) Lot area per dwelling unit:  The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be two 

thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet in an R-2 Zone. 

(c) Lot Area:  Every tract in an R-2 Zone shall have a minimum width of fifty (50) 

feet and a minimum area of five thousand (5,000) square feet. 

(d) Lot Coverage:  Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot shall be covered by 

buildings or structures in an R-2 Zone. 

 

15-4 Setbacks:  
(a) Front Setbacks: The front yard setback provisions of Sections 8-11 shall apply to 

the R-2 (Two-family Residential) Zone. 

(b) Side Setbacks: The side yard setback provisions of Sections 8-11 of this 

Ordinance shall apply to the R-2 (Two-family Residential) Zone. 

(c) Rear Setbacks: The rear yard setback provisions of Sections 8-11 of this 

Ordinance shall apply to the R-2 (Two-family Residential) Zone. 



 

15 - 2 

 

15-5 Special Exceptions 

Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 15-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer 

be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license 

by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of 

the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended May 2012, Section 15-2(a) 

Amended August, 2006, Section 15-2 (a) 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 15-5 

 

 



 

17 - 1 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 

SECTION 16 

R-3A (MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 

16-1 Permitted Uses: 
(a) Any use permitted in the R-2 (Two-family) Zone subject to the restrictions and 

regulations of the R-2 Zone; and 

(b) Multiple-family dwellings subject to meeting to the dumpster requirements in 

Section 16-3. 

(c)      Single-family attached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance with 

     Section 13 of this Ordinance, provided that the density of dwellings shall not 

     exceed the regulations set forth in Section 16-5 (a) of this Ordinance. 

Note:  Multi-story condominiums are subject to meeting the dumpster 

requirements in Section 16-3. 

(d)     Family personal care homes subject to the criteria established in Section 26 of this 

    Ordinance. 

 

16-2 Special Exception: The following may be permitted in the R-3A Zone by Special 

Exception.  

(a)       Relocated to 16-1(c) 

(b)   Relocated to 16-1(d) 

(e)       Tourist House 

(d) Group personal care homes. 

(e)  Fraternity or sorority houses. 

(f) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the 

area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such 

transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the 

boundary of the less restricted zone. 

(g)    Lodging or Boarding House – subject to performance standards established in 

   Section 26-1 (u) 

 

16-3   Dumpsters:  Trash and recycling collection services must be provided for any multi-

family dwelling that does not qualify for individual trash and recycling collection service.  

Trash and recycling collection services shall use stationary containers, commonly known 

as dumpsters and recyclable material bins. 

 

 Collection trucks must be able to easily access dumpsters and recyclable material bins.  

These collection vehicles must be able to enter, service a dumpster or recyclable material 

bin, back up and depart without having to make unnecessary maneuvers.  The path of 

these collection trucks shall not be obstructed by parked vehicles, medians, curbs, 

buildings, or other obstructions.  Collection trucks must be able to lift the dumpster or 

recyclable material bin without obstruction from overhead wires or tree limbs.  

Dumpsters may not be placed on public streets, allies, sidewalks or any public property. 

The vehicle approach and container must be on the same grade in order to be serviceable. 

 

 

 



 

17 - 2 

 Size of Dumpsters: 

  

(1) A 4 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 800 pounds) must be provided for 

multi-family dwellings and multi-story condominiums with less than eight (8) 

units; 

(2) A 6 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 1200 pounds) must be provided for 

multi-family dwellings and multi-story condominiums with eight (8) to 

sixteen (16) units; 

(3) An 8 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 1600 pounds) must be provided for 

multi-family dwellings and multi-story condominiums with 17 - 24 units; 

(4) Multi-family dwelling units and multi-story condominiums with more than 25 

units must provide the same unit to dumpster ratio as stated above. 

 

Dumpster sizes are calculated on once-a-week pick and dumpster size may be 

reduced by the Planning Commission with a written agreement for more 

frequent pick up. 

 

Dumpsters and recyclable material bins must be placed on a concrete surface large 

enough to support the container and the front wheels of the collection truck. No dumpster 

or recyclable material bin may be placed in a required parking space, within 10 feet of a 

fire hydrant or fire suppression connection, on any sidewalk (whether public or private), 

within any right-of-way (whether public or private), or in such a manner as to obstruct 

sight distances of vehicular traffic or traffic movement. 

 

Dumpster or recyclable material bin enclosures must be at least 12 feet wide to allow for 

adequate access for collection trucks.  Enclosures with more than one container should 

add 10 feet of width per additional dumpster. Doors for such enclosures must be 

constructed so that the doors remain open while the dumpsters / bins are being serviced.  

If screening materials are placed around the enclosure, there must be two (2) fixed barrier 

guard posts placed on any side of the enclosure (excluding the front) subject to traffic 

movement. 

 

All dumpsters or recyclable material bins must either: 

 

  Have a roof, or 

  Have a drain that ties to the sanitary sewer. 

 

16-4 Height:  The height provisions of the R-2 (Two-family) Zone shall apply to the R-3A 

Zone.  

 

16-5 Area:  
(a) Lot area per dwelling unit: The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall  be four 

thousand (4,000) square feet in an R-3A Zone. 

(b) Tract Area: Every tract in an R-3A Zone shall have a minimum width of eighty 

(80) feet and a minimum area of ten thousand (10,000) square feet. 

 

16-6 Lot Coverage: The lot coverage provisions of the R-2 (Two-family) Zone shall apply to 

the R-3A Zone.  

 



 

17 - 3 

16-7   Setbacks: 
(a) Front Setbacks:  The front yard setback provisions of Sections 8-8 of this 

Ordinance shall apply to the R-3A (Multiple-family) Zone.  

(b) Side Setbacks: The side yard setback provisions of Sections 8-8 of this Ordinance 

shall apply, provided when a side yard abuts a zone described in Sections 8-8 of 

this Ordinance, no structure may be constructed within 25 feet of the boundary of 

that zone. If a six (6) foot brick or stucco wall is constructed beginning at the 

front setback line and extending along the entire side property line adjoining the 

zone described in Sections 8-8 of this Ordinance, then the required setback shall 

be fifteen (15) feet. Where a side yard abuts a public street the provisions for front 

setbacks shall apply. 

(c) Rear Setbacks: The rear yard setback shall be the greater of twenty-five (25) feet 

or twenty (20) percent of the depth of the lot, but such yard need not exceed fifty 

(50) feet. 

 

16-8 Special Exceptions 

Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 16-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no 

longer be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business 

license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable 

proof of the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the 

use is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended April 2020 -Dumpsters 

Amended August 2018 – Section 16-2 (g) Lodging or Boarding House 

Amended May 2012, Section 16-2-(b) (c) 

Amended August, 2006, Section 16-2 (b) 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 16-8 

 

 

 



 

17 - 4 

 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 17 
 

R-3B (MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 
 

17-1 Permitted Uses: 
(a) Any use permitted in the R-3A (Multiple-family Residential) Zone subject to the 

restrictions and regulations of the R-3A Zone;  

(b) Single-family attached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance 

with Section 13 of this Ordinance, provided that the density of dwellings shall not 

exceed the regulations set forth in Section 17-5 (a) of this Ordinance. 

(c) Deleted – See Special Exception 

(d) Family and group personal care homes. 

 (e) Fraternity or sorority house.  

 

17-2 Special Exception:  The following may be permitted in the R-3B Zone by Special 

Exception: 

(a) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the 

area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such 

transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the 

boundary of the less restricted zone. 

(b)     Lodging or boarding home - subject to performance standards established in  

 Section 26-1 (u) 

 

17-3 DELETED. 

 

17-4 Height:  Maximum height shall not exceed four (4) stories or seventy-five (75) feet, 

except that the height may be increased as provided for in Section 29 of this Ordinance. 

 

17-5 Area: 
(a) Lot area per dwelling unit: The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be two 

thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet in an R-3B Zone.  

(b) Tract Area: The tract area provisions of the R-3A (Multiple-family Residential) 

Zone shall apply to the R-3B Zone.  

 

17-6 Lot Coverage:  The lot coverage provisions of the R-3A (Multiple-family Residential) 

Zone shall apply to the R-3B Zone. 

 

17-7 Setbacks:  
(a) Front Setbacks: The front yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to 

the R-3B Zone. 

(b) Side Setbacks: The side yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to 

the R-3B Zone. 

(c) Rear Setbacks:  The rear yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to 

the R-3B Zone. 



 

17 - 5 

17-8 Special Exceptions 

Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 17-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer 

be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license 

by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of 

the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended August 2018 – Section 17-2 Lodging or Boarding House 

Amended August 2006, Section 17-1 (b) 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 17-8 

 



 

18 - 1 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 18 
 

R-3C (MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE 
 

18-1 Permitted Uses:  
(a) Any use permitted in the R-3B (Multiple-family Residential) Zone subject to the 

restrictions and regulation of the R-3B Zone;  

(b) Single-family attached dwellings and condominiums developed in accordance 

with Section 13 of this Ordinance, provided that the density of dwellings shall not 

exceed the regulations set forth in Section 18-5 (a) of this Ordinance. 

 (c) Congregate personal care homes. 

 

18-2 Special Exceptions:  The following may be permitted in the R-3C Zone by Special 

Exception: 

(a) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the 

area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such 

transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the 

boundary of the less restricted zone. 

(b)       Lodging or boarding home - subject to performance standards established in 

         Section 26-1 (u) 

 

18-3 DELETED.  

 

18-4 Height: Maximum height shall not exceed six (6) stories or one hundred and five (105) 

feet, except that the height may be increased as provided for in Section 29 of this 

Ordinance.  

 

18-5 Area:  
(a) Lot area per dwelling unit: The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be one 

thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet in an R-3C Zone  

(b) Tract Area: The tract area provisions of the R-3A (Multiple-family Residential) 

Zone shall apply to the R-3C Zone.  

 

18-6 Lot Coverage:  Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the lot may be covered by buildings 

or structures. 

 

18-7 Setbacks:  
(a) Front Setbacks: The front yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to 

the R-3C. 

(b) Side Setbacks: The side yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to 

the R-3C Zone. 

(c) Rear Setbacks: The rear yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to 

the R-3C Zone. 

 



 

18 - 2 

18-8 Special Exceptions 

Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 18-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer 

be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license 

by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of 

the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended August 2018 – Section 18-2 Lodging or Boarding House 

Amended August 2006, Section 18-1 (b) 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 18-8 

 



 

19 - 1 

RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 19 
 

PUD (PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT) ZONE 
 

PURPOSE AND INTENT: 

 

A Planned Unit Development (PUD) district allows projects that would not otherwise be 

permitted under this Ordinance because of the strict application of zoning district development 

standards or general site standards. Generally, the PUD district is intended for sites where a 

developer proposes and the City of Augusta desires to achieve a particular mix of uses, 

appearance, land use compatibility and/or apply special sensitivity to the site and area character. 

In return for greater flexibility in site design requirements, planned developments are expected to 

deliver innovative and exceptional quality community designs that preserve environmental, 

historic and cultural resources; incorporate creative design in the layout of buildings, open space 

and vehicular and pedestrian circulation; assure compatibility with surrounding land uses and 

area character; and, provide greater efficiency in the layout and provision of roads, and utilities 

and other infrastructure that would not otherwise be possible within a base zoning district. 

 

A. The standards and procedures of this district are intended to encourage: 

1) Efficient and economic uses of land; 

2) Flexibility to meet the changing needs, economics, and consumer preferences of the 

community; 

3) Greater freedom in providing a mix of land uses in the same development, including a 

mix of housing types, lot sizes, densities and nonresidential uses to encourage variety 

and to avoid monotony; 

4) Development to take advantage of special site characteristics, locations and land uses 

to protect environmentally sensitive areas and to promote better design; and 

5) Permit the combining and coordinating of land uses, building types, and building 

relationships with a planned development, which otherwise, would not be provided 

under a conventional zoning district; 

6) Encourage the assembly of properties that might otherwise be developed in unrelated 

increments; and 

7) Provide usable and suitably located recreational facilities, open spaces, and scenic 

areas which are either commonly owned. 

 

19-1 Permitted Uses 

A. A Planned Unit Development (PUD) may contain any or all of the uses specified in the 

approved PUD Development Plan. A wide range of uses is possible in a PUD district, and 

the specific uses allowed may be different in each PUD district. All uses that are 

identified in an approved development plan shall be permitted. Any uses not identified in 

the development plan shall not be permitted. The Augusta Commission has the discretion 

to require that certain uses be classified as limited uses or special uses. 

B. Proposed uses should fit within the context of the surrounding uses or can be considered 

a compatible use with surrounding uses or uses proposed within the PUD district. If 

proposed use cannot be considered to be compatible with surrounding uses or uses 



 

19 - 2 

proposed within PUD district, the Planned Unit Development may be rejected by either 

Planning Commission or the Augusta Commission.  

C. Mixed use developments are encouraged in designated PUD zoning districts with an 

emphasis on a mix of residential uses, recreational uses, and non-residential uses. 

D. A single residential use development or single non-residential development use is not 

permitted unless there are a minimum of three (3) different residential uses or a minimum 

of two (2) different types of non-residential uses, or a combination thereof. 

E. A Planned Unit Development designated area may amend the established uses through an 

amendment process. 

 

19-2 General Development Requirements 

A. A Planned Unit Development is established by a rezoning of the property and the 

provisions of a Development Plan. 

B. The Development Plan establishes permitted, conditionally permitted and accessory uses; 

site plan, including the site area; street layout, including typical street sections; pedestrian 

facilities; open space areas; number of residential units by type; square footage of 

residential and non-residential units; preliminary landscaping plan, development 

regulations; architectural standards; phasing plan, if applicable; statement regarding 

consistency with the comprehensive plan and all other applicable plans; traffic study; 

other information necessary for the substantive and environmental review of the proposed 

project; and any other information deemed necessary by the Planning Director, or Deputy 

Director of Planning, or Development Services Manager or designee. 

C. All requirements of applicable ordinances should attempt to be met or exceeded by the 

Development Plan.   

D. Off-street parking shall be provided for each individual land use in accordance with the 

requirements set forth in Section 4-3 of this Ordinance. The applicant may be permitted 

to utilize spaces located within the designated distance as specified in Section 4-3 of the 

Ordinance. 

E. Signs for the advertisement of businesses on the parcel of single-family detached 

dwellings are prohibited.  

 

19-3 PUD Development Plan Requirements  

A. The applicant shall submit a Planned Unit Development (PUD) District Development 

Plan for the total area within the proposed development. If the Planned Unit Development 

is developed in phases, each phase shall include the total size, composition and 

arrangement to the extent that the construction operation is feasible and independent of 

any subsequent phases. Final approval shall be given only to one phase at a time.  

B. The following site development characteristics shall be determined and set in the 

approved development plan: 

I. Minimum lot area(s); 

II. Minimum lot width(s); 

III. Size(s) and location(s) of yard(s) and setback(s); 

IV. Maximum impervious surface ratio for individual lots and the development as a 

whole; 

V. Minimum and/or maximum building density, including total number of residential 

units and non-residential square footage permitted, broken down by type; 



 

19 - 3 

VI. Maximum structure height(s); 

VII. Open space shall be provided with all PUDs, and minimum open space shall be 

set by the development plan. For PUDs incorporating multi-family residential 

dwellings, a portion of the open space, complementary to the proposed design and 

lifestyle features of the proposed development, shall be reserved as common open 

space that shall be designated for the recreational or leisurely use by residents. 

VIII. Internal traffic calming strategies; 

IX. Location, size, and/or amount of bufferyard(s), screening, landscaping, and tree 

save areas; 

X. Layout of lots, lot coverage, streets, and any other infrastructure, including 

bicycle and pedestrian facilities, serving the development, if applicable; 

XI. Spacing and species of street trees to be installed; 

XII. Development-specific architectural design criteria; 

XIII. Location, size, and design of any permanent signage; 

XIV. Location of and specifications for site access and internal traffic circulation; and 

XV. Any other site-specific prescription(s) deemed necessary for the development of 

the site, as proposed. 

C. Roadway design and stormwater standards shall adhere to environmentally sensitive and 

aesthetically pleasing best management practices and development standards. 

D. A minimum of fifteen (15) percent of the usable project area shall be permanently 

allocated to open space. 

I. A portion of the required open space shall be centrally located within the 

development. Location and approximate size of the open space area shall be 

designated and approved by the planning commission as part of conceptual 

approval. 

II. For developments under ten (10) acres, the open space requirement may be 

satisfied by an existing or proposed public park or trail network that is within 

1,300 feet of the development boundary. 

III. Stormwater infrastructure may not be counted toward the required open space, 

unless designed as part of a low-impact system that utilizes bio-swales and natural 

recharge areas. 

IV. Utility easements may not be counted toward the required open space, unless 

utilized as part of a common trail network or other amenity. 

E. Specific architectural design criteria shall be adopted as part of the overall plan for the 

site.  

F. Maximum impervious cover for individual building lots shall be specified in the 

development plan, with stormwater infrastructure designed accordingly.  

G. The site development characteristics prescribed by the approved development plan 

associated with a Planned Unit Development, shall supplant any conflicting standards for 

site development established in the Augusta-Richmond County Code of Ordinances. Any 

site development characteristics not prescribed in the approved plans for a planned unit 



 

19 - 4 

development shall be subject to the minimum standards, if applicable, established in the 

Augusta-Richmond County Code of Ordinances. 

H. If a property within the PUD District is subdivided it must be bound to the requirements 

of the approved PUD. 

I. Home Occupations are allowed for residential uses in accordance with Section 8-3 of the 

Augusta Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance 

19-4 Planned Unit Development Application Review Procedures 

A. Schedule to meet with the Development Review Committee (DRC) to discuss project 

details with development services staff and receive general feedback on potential 

conflicts related to the proposed development. (Optional)  

B. The pre-application conference is a required informal discussion of the general concept of 

the proposed development. The applicant is expected to provide a concept plan for the 

proposed development and receive feedback from staff prior to filing of the application. 

The general concept plan must be provided along with the following information: 

I. Site Plan, approximately scaled 100 feet to 1 inch, and satisfies the general list of 

items included in the above section. 

II. Brief narrative or written statement describing the general design and architectural 

policies of the plan, time frame for a phased development, and any other 

information the developer believes may be useful to staff. 

III. Other relevant information required for rezoning approval. 

IV. Attend and participate at the Planning and Augusta Commission meetings for a 

final decision on the zoning request. (Required) 

V. If approved, project submittal of the PUD Site Plan package for departmental 

review. The Site Plan package shall contain the following information: 

a) Background information listing owner’s name, phone and address, 

developer’s name, address and phone, other related information included on 

the Site Plan application 

b) Engineered site plans 

c) Grading plans 

d) Appropriate fees 

e) Traffic analysis (varies on development) 

f) Other relevant information required by the Site Plan review 

 

19-5 Changes in Property Ownership  

Except as provided in this Section, approved PUD plans shall be binding on the owner or group 

and  any successor in title. 

 

19-6 PUD Development Plan Revisions 

A. Minor Modifications of Final Plan – Minor changes in an approved PUD site plan may 

be handled administratively by the Planning Director on application by the applicant, 

upon making a finding that such changes: 

a) Do not increase density; 

b) Do not change the exterior boundaries or height; 

c) Do not increase the intensity of land use; 



 

19 - 5 

d) Do not materially change the location or amount of land devoted to specific land 

uses; 

e) Do not significantly change the exterior appearance of the project. 

Minor changes may include, but not be limited to minor shifting of buildings, proposed 

streets, public or private ways, utility easements, parks or other public open spaces, or 

other features of the plan. 

 

B. 19-8 Major Modifications of Final Approval – A proposed change not determined by 

the Planning Director or his/her designee to be minor shall be submitted as an amendment 

to the PUD and shall be processed in the same manner as the original PUD application 

for final development plan.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AMENDED IN ITS ENTIRETY – August 2018



 

20 - 1 

PROFESSIONAL/OFFICE DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 20 
 

P-1 (PROFESSIONAL/OFFICE) ZONE 
 

20-1 Permitted Uses: 
(a) General offices where no retail or wholesale sales are conducted resulting in the 

exchange of goods on the premises and where no vehicles or equipment other 

than standard passenger vehicles (cars, vans, and pickup trucks) are parked or 

stored on the premises. 

(b) Physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, and similar professional uses which 

may occupy an entire building or group of buildings.  

(c) DELETED. 

 (d) Branch banks or other financial institutions. 

(e) Freestanding Automated Teller Machines. 

(f) DELETED. 

(g) Provision of the following services where no retail or wholesale activities are 

conducted on the premises: insurance, finance, mortgage, accounting, appraisal, 

business consultant, real estate, and other similar services.    

 (h) Beauty shops, barber shops. 

(i) Uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses located within the same 

building or group of buildings and accessory buildings, when located on the same 

lot, including garages for the use of patrons and for employees. 

(j) Public parking areas, when located and developed as in Section 4 and where the 

area adjoins a use other than provided for in the R-1 Zone, provided such 

transitional use does not extend more than one hundred (100) feet from the 

boundary of the less restricted zone. 

(k) Fence, walls:  A fence, latticework screen, or wall in a required side or rear yard 

shall not exceed six (6) feet in height.  A fence, latticework screen, or wall located 

in a required front yard shall be limited to four (4) feet in height.  Any fence, wall, 

or landscape feature located at the corner of intersection streets described in 

Section 3-6 of this Ordinance shall be subject to additional restrictions discussed 

in that subsection. 

(l) Any office or professional use which is similar in character or nature to 

the above mentioned uses upon approval and resolution of the Augusta-

Richmond County Planning Commission may be permitted in a P-1 zone. 

 

20-2 Special Exceptions:  The following Specials Exceptions shall apply in a P-1 Zone and 

may be permitted upon approval of the location by the Augusta Commission: 

 

(a) Facilities for public or private assembly such as conference center, convention 

centers, meeting rooms, hospitality facilities (if utilized for more than fourteen 

total days per calendar year), and facilities utilized for similar social events.  

Applications  for  special  exceptions  pursuant to  this  subsection  shall be  

accompanied by supportive documentation which describes in detail the  

This supporting documentation shall illustrate conformity to the following 

objective and subjective criteria.  Special exceptions granted pursuant to this 

subsection shall be specifically for the use described, and they shall be invalid 



 

20 - 2 

and automatically rescinded if the use changes substantially or ceases to exist 

for a period of one year: 

  

(1) Exterior lighting shall be designed so that the light is reflected 

away from adjacent properties; 

(2) If there are any single-family residences on adjoining properties 

then all outdoor activities shall cease at 11:00 P.M.; 

(3) Only one sign per street front shall be permitted.  Such sign may 

identify the business only, not to exceed 24 square feet in area, and 

extend not higher than six feet above the ground.  No such sign 

may be internally lighted; 

(4) Alcoholic beverages may not be sold on the premises.  An open 

bar where guests are not charged for drinks may be provided; 

(5) The volume of amplified sound shall be kept at such a level that it 

is not audible from any single-family residence; 

(6) Parking facilities shall be provided as the staff deems necessary; 

(7) The design and scale of any improvements shall be consistent with 

the surrounding area; 

(8) Improvements shall conform to all appropriate provisions of the 

Tree Ordinance; and 

(9) Additional conditions may be imposed if deemed appropriate to 

the proposed use and location. 

 

(b) Any use set forth in the R-3C zone, subject to the restrictions and 

regulations of the R-3C Zone.  

 

20-3 Height:  Not to exceed three (3) stories nor higher than fifty-five (55) feet. 

20-4 Setbacks: 

Front Yard:  The front yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the P-1 

Zone; 

Side Yard: The side yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the P-1 

Zone; 

Rear Yard:  The rear yard setback provisions of the R-3A Zone shall apply to the P-1 

Zone. 

 

20-5 Maximum Individual Building Area:  No individual building, whether freestanding or 

attached as part of a planned center or similar group of buildings, may be constructed in 

excess of 15,000 gross square feet in area after the effective date of the Ordinance 

amendment. 



 

20 - 3 

 

20-6 Special Exceptions 

Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 20-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer 

be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license 

by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of 

the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended June 2005, Section 20-1 (l) 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 20-6 

 

 



 

21 - 1 

BUSINESS DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 21 
 

B-1 (NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS) ZONE 

 

21-1 Permitted Uses: 

(a) Any use permitted in the P-1 (Professional/Office) Zone or the R-3C (Multiple-

family Residential) Zone subject to the restrictions and regulations of the 

respective Zone. 

 (b) The following uses are authorized in a B-1 Zone: 

  (1) Apparel store 

  (2)  Bakery 

  (3) DELETED. 

  (4) DELETED. 

(5) Dry cleaning and laundry establishment, excluding steam and power 

laundries, operated in conjunction with customer service counters and 

limited to the dry cleaning and laundering of articles delivered to the 

premises by individual customers provided, however, that no materials 

may be used in any laundering or cleaning process which are explosive, 

inflammable, combustible, or toxic in greater degree than 

Perchlorethlylene or equivalent, and provided further that no odor, fumes, 

or other nuisance producing agents are expelled in such a way as to be 

detectable beyond the property line of the property used for such 

businesses. 

  (6) Medical equipment and medical supply store 

(7) Drive-in type retail business where a customer is waited upon in an off-

street parking area, or where a customer conducts business directly from a 

vehicle with an agent in the building. 

  (8) Drug store 

  (9) Dry goods or notions store 

  (10) Florist or gift shop 

  (11) Grocery, fruit or vegetable market 

  (12) Hardware or electric appliance store 

  (13) Jewelry store 

  (14) Health spa, tanning booth, massage therapy establishment 

  (15) Meat market or delicatessen 

16) Motel 

(a) DELETED. 

(b) There shall be staff or management on duty 24 hours per day 7 

days per week; 

(c) Each guest room shall have a minimum area of 280 square feet; 

(d) No business license shall be issued for any business operated from 

any guest room; and 

(e) No more than half of the total number of guest rooms shall have 

kitchenettes or any kitchen facilities. 

  (17) Music store 

  (18) Newsstand  

  (19) Video rental store 



 

21 - 2 

  (20) DELETED 

  (21) Photographer (including sale of supplies and equipment) 

(22) Café having a seating capacity of less than 40 persons and conducted 

consistent with Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby 

regulating alcohol licenses for eating establishments. Restaurant having a 

seating capacity of at least 40 persons and conducted consistent with 

Section 6-2-52 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol 

licenses for eating establishments. 

(23) DELETED. 

  (24) Shoe store and shoe repair shop 

  (25) Supermarket 

  (26) Tailor 

  (27) Variety store 

(28) Churches, parochial and private schools, transitional housing, family day 

care homes, adult day care facilities, private hospitals, clubs (public and 

private), and nursing homes.  These uses are also permitted by Special 

Exception in other zones discussed in Section 26-1 of this Ordinance.  

Uses which would in any way involve detained persons, or persons who 

would be or have been released from correctional facilities such as 

halfway homes, or similar uses that in any way relate to corrections or 

incarceration may not be permitted by right in the B-1 zone. 

  (29) Veterinarian Clinic (no outside kennels allowed) 

 (30) Deleted May 2013 

(31) Establishments having less than three video electronic games or 

amusements on site in conjunction with a permitted use other than a use 

specializing in or characterized as a video electronic game room, arcade, 

or similarly defined establishment.  Where the property line of the 

permitted use is located within 1500 feet of any property line of any 

private or public educational institution having all or some combination of 

grades kindergarten through twelfth, no electronic games or amusements 

are allowed. 

(32) Construction Trailers Subject to the following: 

a) A Manufactured Home permit shall be acquired from the 

Augusta Planning and Development Department; 

b) The location for the Construction Trailer shall be shown 

and approved on a Site Plan.  Said location shall be as far 

removed from and buffered from residential areas and 

public streets as practical; 

c) The Construction Trailer shall be tied down and 

underpinned; and 

d) The Construction Trailer shall be removed from the 

property prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy. 

(33) Group day care homes and day care centers. 

 

(c) The above specified businesses, stores, or shops shall be retail or service 

establishments only. 

(d) Any business which is similar in character or nature to the above mentioned uses 

upon approval and resolution of the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission may 

be permitted in a B-1 Zone. 



 

21 - 3 

 (e) Shopping Centers: The petitioner shall submit to the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department a preliminary development plan for the shopping center 

showing the arrangement of the buildings, off-street parking, internal traffic 

movement and service facilities which are feasible for the property on which the 

center is to be located. The petitioner shall plan the center to minimize any 

adverse effects on the property surrounding the proposed development. The 

preliminary plot plan shall show the following: 

(1) Topographic features of the proposed development and the area within 

two hundred (200) feet of the center. 

  (2) Proposed off-street parking layout. 

  (3) Loading zones. 

  (4) Planting areas. 

  (5) Driveways, entrances, and exits. 

  (6) General drainage system. 

  (7) Sign locations. 

  (8) Walkways. 

  (9) Water and gas mains. 

  (10) Power source. 

(g) Lodging or Boarding House – subject to performance standards established in 

         Section 26-1 (u) 

(h) All allowable uses in the B-1 zone shall be subject to the dumpster requirements 

          in Section 21-3. 

 

21-2 Special Exceptions: 

 

The following may be permitted in a B-1 Zone by Special Exception:   

Application for such a Special Exception shall include a Conceptual Plan showing the 

size and elevation of all buildings to be built on the site, proposed ingress and egress, 

buffering if any beyond the minimum requirements of the Tree Ordinance, and all 

proposed sign locations.  The proposed use of the property shall also be disclosed. 

 

a) Individual buildings - Individual buildings, whether freestanding or attached as part 

of a shopping center or similar group of buildings, which would exceed 15,000 gross 

square feet of area may be permitted by special exception in B-1 zones if they 

generally conform to the following subjective and objective criteria: 

 

 Surrounding area –  the nature of the surrounding area is not predominantly 

residential with only a few commercial uses interspersed; 

 Location – the property is located at or within 500 feet of the intersection of two 

arterial streets 

 Nature of the use – the goods and services to be offered cater generally to the 

surrounding area such as a drug store or a grocery store, not to the city as a whole 

such as a large appliance store. 

 

b) Convenience Stores - Convenience stores may be permitted by Special Exception in 

B-1 zones if they generally conform to the following subjective and objective criteria: 

 



 

21 - 4 

 

 

 Hours of operation – the establishment would not be open for business more than 

18 hours per day 

 Illumination – the entire site would not be illuminated as a way to attract 

attention, but rather to a level consistent with security and identification of the 

business 

 Location – the property is located at or within 500 feet of the intersection of 

arterial streets or within 500 feet of such an intersection 

 Surrounding area – the nature of the surrounding area is not predominantly 

residential with only a few commercial uses interspersed 

 Video games/Amusements - video games/nor similar amusements are to be 

located on the property  

 

c) Liquor Store – Liquor stores may be permitted by Special Exception in B-1 zones if 

they generally conform to the following subjective and objective criteria: 

 

 Surrounding area – the nature of the surrounding area is not predominantly 

residential with only a few commercial  uses interspersed; 

 Location – the property is at the intersection of two arterial streets or within 500 

feet of such an intersection; 

 Proximity to public places – the property is not within 1000 feet of a public park 

or recreation area, school or library 

 

d) A Tavern having a seating capacity of less than 40 persons conducted consistent with 

 Section 6-2-51 of the Augusta Georgia Code thereby regulating alcohol licenses 

(excluding dancing and entertainment). 

 

(e)  Special Entertainment Permit with the following restrictions: 

 The permit is nontransferable; 

 The permit is subject to renewal annually by the Augusta Commission. 

 Pursuant to Augusta City Code, Chapter 6 – Noise, Section 3-6-2 – Noises 

Enumerated. 

 

21-3 Dumpsters:  Trash and recycling collection services must be provided for all B-1 uses.  

Trash and recycling collection services shall use stationary containers, commonly known 

as dumpsters and recyclable material bins. 

 

 Collection trucks must be able to easily access dumpsters and recyclable material bins.  

These collection vehicles must be able to enter, service a dumpster or recyclable material 

bin, back up and depart without having to make unnecessary maneuvers.  The path of 

these collection trucks shall not be obstructed by parked vehicles, medians, curbs, 

buildings, or other obstructions.  Collection trucks must be able to lift the dumpster or 

recyclable material bin without obstruction from overhead wires or tree limbs.  



 

21 - 5 

Dumpsters may not be placed on public streets, allies, sidewalks or any public property. 

The vehicle approach and container must be on the same grade in order to be serviceable. 

 

 Size of Dumpsters: 

 

(1) A 2 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 400 pounds) must be provided for 

small-volume businesses, such as offices with less than 20 employees, 

boutiques, or coffee shops and restaurants serving roughly 100 customers a 

day; 

(2) A 4 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 800 pounds) must be provided for 

medium-size businesses, including companies with up to 100 employees; 

retailers, entertainment venues, and government offices occupying less than 

5,000 square feet; convenience stores, and mid-size restaurants; and rental 

properties, multi-family dwellings  and multi-story condominiums with less 

than eight (8) units; 

(3) A 6 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 1200 pounds) must be provided for 

schools, retail spaces of up to 10,000 square feet in size, office spaces 

occupying up to 15,000 square feet, hotels, large offices and retail plazas; and 

rental properties, multi-family dwellings  and multi-story condominiums with 

eight (8) to sixteen (16) units; 

(4) An 8 yard dumpster (that will hold up to 1600 pounds) must be provided for 

universities, hotels and large retailers occupying up to 25,000 square feet; 

offices with up to 500 employees; grocery stores, shipping centers and 

manufacturing facilities; and rental properties, multi-family dwellings  and 

multi-story condominiums with 17 - 24 units; 

(5) Larger commercial facilities must provide the same square footage to 

dumpster ratio as stated above.  Rental properties, multi-family dwelling units 

and multi-story condominiums with more than 25 units must provide the same 

unit to dumpster ratio as stated above. 

 

Dumpster sizes are calculated on once-a-week pick and dumpster size may be 

reduced by the Planning Commission with a written agreement for more 

frequent pick up. 

 

Dumpsters and recyclable material bins must be placed on a concrete surface large 

enough to support the container and the front wheels of the collection truck. No dumpster 

or recyclable material bin may be placed in a required parking space, within 10 feet of a 

fire hydrant or fire suppression connection, on any sidewalk (whether public or private), 

within any right-of-way (whether public or private), or in such a manner as to obstruct 

sight distances of vehicular traffic or traffic movement. 

 

Dumpster or recyclable material bin enclosures must be at least 12 feet wide to allow for 

adequate access for collection trucks.  Enclosures with more than one container should 

add 10 feet of width per additional dumpster. Doors for such enclosures must be 

constructed so that the doors remain open while the dumpsters / bins are being serviced.  

If screening materials are placed around the enclosure, there must be two (2) fixed barrier 

guard posts placed on any side of the enclosure (excluding the front) subject to traffic 

movement. 

 



 

21 - 6 

All dumpsters or recyclable material bins must either: 

 

  Have a roof, or 

  Have a drain that ties to the sanitary sewer. 

 

 

21-4 DELETED.  

  

21-5 Maximum height of buildings in a B-1 Zone shall not exceed three (3) stories nor 

exceed fifty-five (55) feet in height. 

 

21-6 Setbacks: 
(a) Front Setback:  The front yard setback requirements in Section 8 shall apply to 

the B-1 (Neighborhood Business) Zone. 

 (b) Side Setback:  

(1) Where the side yard of a lot in a B-Zone abuts the side of a lot in an R-

Zone, there shall be a side yard of not less than five (5) feet for each story 

of twelve (12) feet in height, but such side yard shall not be less than ten 

(10) feet in width.  In all other cases, a side yard for a commercial building 

shall not be required, but if provided, it shall not be less than three (3) feet 

in width. 

 

(2) On a corner lot in a B-Zone which abuts an R-Zone, there shall be 

provided a side yard on the side street equal in depth to the required front 

yard on said side street. 

 

 (c) Rear Setback: 

(1) Where the B-Zone abuts an R-Zone, there shall be a rear yard the greater 

of twenty (20) percent of the depth of the lot or twenty (20) feet, but such 

rear yard shall not exceed fifty (50) feet.  In all other cases no rear yard 

shall be required, but if provided, it shall not be less than three (3) feet in 

depth. 

 

21-7 Maximum Individual Building Area: 

No individual building, whether freestanding or attached as part of a shopping center or 

similar group of buildings, may be constructed in excess of 15,000 gross square feet in 

area after the effective date of the Ordinance amendment, except as provided for at 21-

2(a). 
 

21-8 Special Exceptions 

Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 21-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer 

be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license 

by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of 

the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

21-9 Conditional Use Permit: 



 

21 - 7 

(a) Brewpub 

(b) Pico Brewery 

Performance Standards: 

a) Licensing: The applicant shall obtain all necessary state and local level 

licensing for the production, wholesale and retail sale of alcoholic beverages; 

 

b) Production: For the purposes of retail sales, consumption on premises or 

package goods, the State of Georgia has set a limit of 500 barrels for distilled 

spirits and 3,000 barrels for malt beverages.  Package sales are limited to 

three 750 milliliter bottles of spirits and 288 ounces of malt beverage per 

person per day.   The Augusta Commission may further limit the sales per the 

approval of the Conditional Use Permit; 

 

c) Off-Street Loading and Unloading:  The facility shall provide for off-street 

loading and unloading for all trucks greater than 22 feet in length.  In the 

absence of a loading area, the Planning Commission may impose limits on 

deliveries or shipments using public-rights-of-way including the number of 

trucks per day and hours permitted.  Loading docks shall be located and 

designed so as not to be visible from adjoining public streets;  

 

d) Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the 

requirements set forth in Section 4-2(d)(10) or 4-3(c)(l)of this Ordinance; 

 

e) Signage: Signage shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set 

forth in Sections 28-B-8 and 28-B-9 of this Ordinance; 

 

f) Outdoor Storage: There shall be no outdoor storage with the exception of 

solid waste handling which occurs in an enclosure fully screened from 

adjoining streets; 

 

g) Odors: The operator shall install all standard or necessary equipment so that 

detectable odors coming from the business are eliminated from the property to prevent 

a public nuisance; 

 

h) Water and Sewerage: The facility shall be serviced by public water and 

sewer.  At no time will a septic system be considered adequate;   

 

i) Hours of Operation: The applicant shall identify hours of operation both for 

production and service to the public. 

 

Application for Approval:  All applications for a Conditional Use Permit shall be 

accompanied by the following:  

 

a) A Site Plan, to scale, of the property showing all parking and loading areas, 

trash enclosures, buffers and other improvements;  



 

21 - 8 

 

b) A floor plan showing all seating, production and storage areas and loading docks; 

 

c) A letter of intent describing the proposed use/project - to include hours of operation; 

 

d) Notarized copy of the property owner’s signature permitting the applicant to  

act as agent when not the owner; 

 

e) Photographs of site/building. 

 

 

 

 

 

            Conditional Use Permit: 

 

Any use, established as a result of the granting of a Conditional Use Permit must be 

initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or it shall no longer be valid.  The 

initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the Augusta 

Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the establishment 

of vested rights.  If a Conditional Use Permit is granted and the use is initiated but later 

ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Conditional Use Permit shall no 

longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended April 2020 - Dumpsters 

Amended August 2018 – Section 21-1 Lodging or Boarding House 

Amended August 2017 – Brewpub and Pico Distillery, Conditional Use Permit 

Amended June 2017  - added to Special Exception (e) Special Entertainment 

Amended Sept. 2013 – added 21-1(33) Group Day Care Homes and Day Care Centers 

Amended May 2013 – deleted 21-1(30) Group Day Care Homes and Day Care Centers 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 21-8 

Amended January 2005 – Section 21-1 (b)(32) 

Amended May 2009 –Section 21-2 

Amended July 2011- Section 21-1(b) 

Amended July 2011 – Section 21-2(d) 



 

21 - 9 

 

 

21-9




 

22 - 1 

BUSINESS DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 

 

SECTION 22 
 

B-2 (GENERAL BUSINESS) ZONE 

 

22-1 Permitted Uses: 
(a) Any use permitted in the B-1 (Neighborhood Business) Zone subject to the 

restrictions and regulations of the B-1 Zone. 

(b) The following uses are authorized in a B-2 (General Business) Zone: 

  (1) Stores and shops for the conducting of any retail business.  

   (2) Cafes, restaurants, taverns and drinking establishments (nightclubs) 

(3) Theaters, billiard or pool parlors, bowling alleys, skating rinks, or similar 

recreational uses or places of assembly, and establishments having less 

than three (3) video or electronic games or amusements on site in 

conjunction with another permitted use other than a use or place 

specialized in or characterized as being a video or electronic game room, 

arcade, or similarly-defined establishment except where the property line 

of the other permitted use lies within fifteen hundred (1,500) feet of the 

property line of any public or private educational institution having all or 

some combination of grades kindergarten through twelfth. 

  (4) Telephone offices and call centers. 

(5) Baking, confectionery, dressmaking, dyeing, laundry, printing, tailoring, 

upholstering, and similar establishments, and businesses of a similar and 

no more objectionable character; subject to the following provisions: All 

goods or products manufactured or processed shall be sold on the 

premises.  All such manufacturing and processing shall be done on the 

premises. 

  (6) Golf Driving ranges subject to the following: 

(a) That the minimum size of a tract to be used as a golf driving range 

be ten (10) acres,  

(b) That a one-hundred (100) foot buffer area be required between 

surrounding properties and the golf driving range operation.  

(7) Public parking garages, automobile parking lots and automobile sales lots. 

(8) Flea Markets:  Goods may be displayed outside buildings during daily 

business operations, but goods must be stored inside buildings when daily 

business operations cease.  Buildings utilized in conjunction with flea 

markets must conform to all appropriate codes. Prospective flea market 

license applicants must also conform with Section 3 of Augusta, Georgia 

Ordinance Number 84-4. 

 (9)       Mini-warehouses / Self-Service-Storage Facilities subject to the following: 

 

(a) Lot size:  Minimum lot size is two acres. 

(b) Lot coverage:  Lot coverage of all structures, including parking, 

shall be limited to seventy percent (70%) of the total area. The 

remaining 30% of the property shall be in tree canopy pursuant to 

the Augusta Tree Ordinance. 

(c) Ingress / Egress:  Vehicular ingress-egress shall be limited to one 

(1) access point for all non-emergency vehicles, sufficient in width 



 

22 - 2 

for unobstructed movement of large trucks and Fire Department 

vehicles, for each adjoining public street.  If only one adjoining 

street is available adjacent to the site, a second entrance must be 

provided for emergency vehicles. Vehicular ingress-egress shall be 

sufficient for unobstructed movement of all emergency vehicles as 

required by the Augusta Fire Department. 

(d) Storage:  All storage must be contained within a fully-enclosed 

building; however the storage of boats, recreation vehicles, or other 

similar vehicles may be allowed if all such vehicles are deemed 

“road ready” (tagged and operational) and are covered and 

completely screened from view of any adjoining residential lots. 

(e) Storage only: No individual rental storage unit shall be used for any 

purpose other than storage.   

 

(1) Refrigerated units shall be allowed, but the total number of 

refrigerated units may not exceed 10% of the total number of units 

within the overall Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facility 

 

(f) Allowable uses include: 

 

(1) Mini-Warehouses / Self-Service-Storage Facilities whether 

direct-access or internal access through a doorway and 

common hallway 

(2) Indoor multi-story Mini-Warehouses / Self-Service-Storage  

Facilities (aka “Vertical Self Storage”) – accessed through an 

office or secured doors; elevators must be provided and 

building height is limited to: 

 

2-1/2 stories or 45 feet adjacent to A, all R-1 zones, R-MH, R-

2, R-3A and PUD zones 

 

3 stories or 55 feet adjacent to P-1 or B-1 zones 

 

4 stories or 75 feet adjacent to R-3B, R-3C, B-2, LI or HI 

zones  

 

      Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service Storage Facilities over the 

height  

  requirements listed above must be approved by Special 

Exception     pursuant to Section 22-2-(g).  

 

A minimum of 4, 10’ x 30’ foot, loading / unloading zones 

must be provided adjacent to, or as close as possible to, each 

elevator. 

 

Indoor multi-story Mini-Warehouses / Self-Service-Storage 

Facilities (also referred to as “Vertical Self Storage”) adjacent 

to residential uses in all R zones may contain brick, stucco, 

glass and other similar design elements in order to reduce the 



 

22 - 3 

negative aesthetic impact of long, large expansive wall 

surfaces.  All building side and rear facades must match the 

front façade in usage of design elements.  The variation in 

wall surfaces can be accomplished either by physical offsets or 

by the use of color, pattern, or texture, but in no case shall 

metal comprise more than 25% of the building material list on 

the face of the building.  Metal roofs may be utilized, but in no 

case shall mechanical units, satellite dishes or other similar 

equipment be visible, and this type of equipment shall be 

screened from public view by the extension of a parapet wall 

or other roof mounted screening feature having the same 

design features as the building including material, shape and 

color considerations. 

 

(3) Climate controlled Mini-Warehouses or Self-Service-Storage 

     facilities; one story or multiple stories 

 

(g) Mini-Warehouse or Self-Service-Storage units containing loading 

docks may be made available for box trucks or smaller trucks, but 

in no case shall units with loading docks be made available for 

larger trucks such as 18-wheelers. 

 

(i)      Limited accommodations for overnight managerial or security staff 

     are allowed, if accommodated inside the main office building.  

     Overnight accommodations in a storage unit are strictly prohibited. 

 

(j)      Security:  All such Mini-Warehouses and Self-Service Storage 

     facilities must be fenced and gated with adequate lighting to allow 

     24-hour access to all rented or leased spaces.  Security cameras 

     must be installed at all security gates and building accesses. 
 

(k)     Bufferyards and screening: Mini-Warehouses / Self-Service 

    Storage Facilities shall meet the 10’ side bufferyard requirement 

    and the 20’ rear bufferyard requirement against all R (Residential) 

    zones - one-family, two-family and multi-family - with fence and  

    planting requirements as found in the Augusta Tree Ordinance;  

    otherwise a side and rear bufferyard shall not be required. 
 

(l)    All Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facilities are required to 

   meet the Amerian with Disabilities Act (ADA) regulations passed in  

   2010, unless the property already meets the original ADA standards 

   written in 1991.  Any renovation of an existing Mini-Warehouse / 

   Self-Service-Storage Facility or development of new facilities must 

   be designed to meet the 2010 ADA regulations.  Specifically: 

 

1. Five percent (5%) of the first 200 units must be wheelchair 

accessible.  Two percent (2%) of the remaining units must also 

be wheelchair accessible.  These wheelchair accessible units 

should be dispersed among the different types of units that the 



 

22 - 4 

Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facility provides.  

However, Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facilities in 

existence on March 15, 2012 are not required to add additional 

wheelchair accessible units to have one in each type. 

 

                   (10)     Travel Trailer Parks subject to restrictions in Section 28-E 

(11) Business Parks, mixed use facilities where fifty (50) percent or more of 

the gross leasable area of buildings is designed for and occupied by 

commercial, retail, or service tenants, and the remainder is occupied by 

wholesale, storage, or warehouse facilities.  Adequate parking pursuant to 

Section 4 of this Ordinance must be provided prior to the issuing of a 

certificate of occupancy.  No materials, machinery, equipment or products 

may be stored outside of buildings in a business park.  No loading doors 

shall be visible from a public road or from any R-1 (One-family 

Residential) Zone.  All delivery vehicles must be parked in the designated 

loading areas. 

(12) Video electronic game rooms or arcades.  Prospective applicants for 

licenses to operate electronic game rooms or arcades must conform with 

Section 6-6-45 of the Augusta, Georgia Code. 

(13) Automobile service stations and automobile repair garages where no body 

or fender repairs take place, provided that: 

(a) All repair work and vehicle storage shall be conducted within an 

area enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or finished board fence 

not less than six (6) feet in height and maintained in good 

condition at all times; 

(b) No dismantling of vehicles to obtain auto parts or other such 

activity shall be conducted; 

(c) Such use shall be located at least one hundred (100) feet from any 

residential district or use; 

(d) There shall be no opening in said building on any side facing a 

residential district or use other than a stationary window; and 

(e) Nonconforming automobile repair garages and automobile 

service stations shall be made to conform with Subsections (a) & 

(b) of Section 22-1 (13) of this Ordinance. 

(14) Gun Shops 

 (15) Pawn Shops 

  (16) Funeral Homes   

  (17) Car Wash   

  (18) Hotel - subject to the following restrictions and regulations: 

   (a) There shall be no direct vehicular access to any guest room; 

(b) There shall be staff or management on duty 24 hours per day seven 

days per week; 

   (c) Each guest room shall have a minimum of 280 square feet; 

(d) No business license shall be issued for any business operated from 

any guest room; and 

(e) No more than half of the total number of guest rooms shall have 

kitchenettes or any kitchen facilities. 

  (19) Liquor stores. 

  (20) Convenience stores. 



 

22 - 5 

(21) Fence, walls:  A fence, latticework screen, or wall in a required front, side 

or rear yard shall not exceed six (6) feet in height.  Any fence, wall or 

landscape feature located at the corner of intersecting streets described in 

Section 3-6 of this Ordinance shall be subject to additional restrictions 

discussed in that subsection. 

(22) Crematoriums– subject to the following restrictions and 

 regulations. 

(a)        Cremation facilities are allowed as an accessory use wherein the 

       funeral home is identified as the  primary use. 

(b)        Accessory cremation facilities shall be located at least two 

       hundred (200) feet from contiguous properties zoned or developed 

       for residential use. 

(c)       Cremation facilities that are considered “stand-alone” shall be 

      located at least two thousand five hundred (2,500) feet from 

      contiguous properties zoned or developed for residential use. 

(d)       Cremation facilities shall be consistent with all applicable state 

       permit and licensing requirements. 

(e)       No crematory incinerator shall have a discharge of smoke that 

      exceeds ten percent (10%) ambient air.  

(f)       The owner/operator shall record the hours of operation and total 

      daily cremation rate for the facility: 

 

i. No cremation activity on Monday – Friday between the 

hours of 5 PM - 9 PM and during the weekend, 4 PM - 

9 PM. Such activity shall not include the cooling down 

period of the furnace which may take 1 to 2 hours. 

ii. Each human crematory operation shall record the daily 

cremation rate in bodies per day. 

iii. Each animal crematory operation shall record the daily 

cremation rate in pounds per day. 

(g)       Cremation facilities shall be consistent with all applicable state 

      permit and licensing requirements. 

(h)       Records of the daily cremation rate and the facility’s hours of  

      operation shall be maintained on site in written or electronic logs. 

 

(23) All uses in the B-2 zone shall be subject to the dumpster requirements in 

Section 21-3. 

 

22-2 Special Exceptions:  The following may be permitted in a B-2 Zone by Special 

Exception: 

 (a) Automobile body and fender repair provided that: 

(1) All repair work and vehicle storage shall be conducted within an area 

enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or finished board fence not less than 

six (6) feet in height; and 

(2) No dismantling of vehicles to obtain auto parts or other such activity shall 

be conducted; and 

(3) Such use shall be located at least one hundred (100) feet from any 

residential district or use. 



 

22 - 6 

 (b) DELETED. 

(c) Collection of materials for recycling subject to the following restrictions: 

(1) No volume reduction or physical or chemical alteration of collected 

materials may be conducted; and 

(2) All materials upon collection shall be expeditiously placed inside a 

building, truck trailer, or other enclosure.  No collected materials may be 

stored outside such an enclosure at the end of the normal business day. 

(d) Hotel, Extended Stay - subject to the following restrictions and regulations: 

1) There shall be no direct vehicular access to any guest room; 

2) There shall be staff or management on duty 24 hours per day seven days 

per week; 

3) Each guest room shall have a minimum of 280 square feet; 

4) No business license shall be issued for any business operated from any 

guest room; 

5) No outside storage or permanent parking of equipment or vehicles shall be 

permitted; 

6) No buildings constructed under this section may be converted to or used as 

apartments or condominiums; and 

7) A preliminary plan shall be submitted showing the proposed layout of 

buildings, ingress/egress, buffers and landscaping, amenities, and the 

density of development.  This preliminary plan shall be a consideration in 

granting the Special Exception. 

(e) Motel, Extended Stay - subject to the following restrictions and regulations: 

1) DELETED. 

2) There shall be staff or management on duty 24 hours per day seven days 

per week; 

3) Each guest room shall have a minimum of 280 square feet; 

4) No business license shall be issued for any business operated from any 

guest room; 

5) A preliminary plan shall be submitted showing the proposed layout of 

buildings, ingress/egress, buffers and landscaping, amenities, and the 

density of development.  This preliminary plan shall be a consideration in 

granting the Special Exception; 

6) No vehicle storage or permanent parking of equipment or vehicles shall be 

permitted; and 

7) No buildings constructed under this section may be converted to or used as 

apartments or condominiums. 

(f) Business parks -  as defined in Section 22-1 (11) where thirty (30) percent or 

more of the gross leasable area of buildings is designed for and occupied by 

commercial, retail, or service tenants, and the remainder is occupied by 

wholesale, storage, or warehouse facilities. 

(g)      Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facilities over 4 stories or 75 feet must   be 

                 approved by Special Exception under the guidelines set forth in Permitted Uses 

                 (Section 22-1- b-9) 

 

22-3 The maximum height of a professional or commercial building or structure in the B-2 

Zone shall not exceed one hundred sixty-five (165) feet. 

 

22-4 The setback provisions of the B-1 Zone shall apply to the B-2 Zone. 



 

22 - 7 

 

22-5 Maximum Individual Building Area:  There shall be no maximum individual building 

area in the B-2 (General Business) Zone. 

 

22-6 Special Exceptions 

Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 22-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer 

be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license 

by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of 

the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

22-7 Conditional Use Permit:   

  (a) Pico Brewery 

  (b) Pico Distillery 

(c) Nano Brewery  

  (d) Nano Distillery 

Performance Standards: 

a) Licensing: The applicant shall obtain all necessary state and local level 

licensing for the production, wholesale and retail sale of alcoholic beverages; 

 

b) Production: For the purposes of retail sales, consumption on premises or 

package goods, the State of Georgia has set a limit of 500 barrels for distilled 

spirits and 3,000 barrels for malt beverages.  Package sales are limited to 

three 750 milliliter bottles of spirits and 288 ounces of malt beverage per 

person per day.   The Augusta Commission may further limit the sales per the 

approval of the Conditional Use Permit; 

 

c) Off-Street Loading and Unloading:  The facility shall provide for off-street 

loading and unloading for all trucks greater than 22 feet in length.  In the 

absence of a loading area, the Planning Commission may impose limits on 

deliveries or shipments using public-rights-of-way including the number of 

trucks per day and hours permitted.  Loading docks shall be located and 

designed so as not to be visible from adjoining public streets;  

 

d) Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the 

requirements set forth in Section 4-2(d)(10) or 4-3 (c)(1) of this Ordinance; 

 

e) Signage: Signage shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set 

forth in Sections 28-B-8 and 28-B-9 of this Ordinance; 

 



 

22 - 8 

f) Outdoor Storage: There shall be no outdoor storage with the exception of 

solid waste handling which occurs in an enclosure fully screened from 

adjoining streets; 

 

g) Odors: The operator shall install all standard or necessary equipment so that 

detectable odors coming from the business are eliminated from the property to prevent 

a public nuisance; 

 

h) Water and Sewerage: The facility shall be serviced by public water and 

sewer.  At no time will a septic system be considered adequate;   

 

i) Hours of Operation: The applicant shall identify hours of operation both for 

production and service to the public. 

 

Application for Approval:  All applications for a Conditional Use Permit shall 

be accompanied by the following:  

 

a) A Site Plan, to scale, of the property showing all parking and loading areas, 

trash enclosures, buffers and other improvements;  

 

b) A floor plan showing all seating, production and storage areas and loading docks; 

 

c) A letter of intent describing the proposed use/project - to include hours of operation; 

 

d) Notarized copy of the property owner’s signature permitting the applicant to 

act as agent when not the owner; 

 

e) Photographs of site/building. 

 

                       

 Conditional Use Permit: 

 

Any use, established as a result of the granting of a Conditional Use Permit must be 

initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or it shall no longer be valid.  The 

initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license by the 

Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of the 

establishment of vested rights.  If a Conditional Use Permit is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Conditional 

Use Permit shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

Amended – August 2018 – Mini-Warehouses  

Amended – August 2017- Pico Brewery & Distillery, Nano Brewery & Distillery 

Amended - August 2015 – Section 22-1 (22) 

Amended - April 2013 – Section 22-(b) – (10) 

Amended - August 2011, Section 22-2 (b) (2) 



 

22 - 9 

Amended - Sept. 2008, Section 22-2 (f) 

Amended - Sept. 2007, Section 22-3 

 



 

23 - 1 

INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 23 
 

LI (LIGHT INDUSTRIAL) ZONE 
 

23-1 Permitted Uses: 
(a) Any use permitted in the B-2 (General Business) Zone subject to the restrictions 

and regulations of the B-2 Zone. 

 (b) The following uses are authorized in the LI Zone: 

  (1) Wholesale, storage, and warehouse facilities. 

(2) Lumber, feed, or other similar storage yards, but not salvage yards, coal 

yards, or junkyards. 

(3) Uses of light manufacturing nature.  Manufacturing establishments and 

operations other than those classified as heavy industry (Section 24), 

which are housed within a building and emit no excessive noise, dust, or 

vibrations beyond the property on which the establishment is located.  

(4) Automobile body and fender repair provided that all repair work and 

vehicle storage shall be conducted within an area enclosed on all sides by 

a solid wall, or finished fence not less than six (6) feet in height. 

(5) Storage of construction equipment and other heavy equipment, and trucks 

in excess of one (1) ton capacity and having three (3) or more axles.  

(6) Collection of materials for recycling subject to the following restrictions: 

 

(a) No volume reduction or physical or chemical alteration of  

  collected materials may be conducted; and 

 (b) All materials upon collection shall be expeditiously placed inside a 

   building, truck trailer, or other enclosure.  No collected materials  

may be stored outside such an enclosure at the end of the normal 

business day. 

(7) Animal Kennel 

 

(8)  Brewery, Distillery, Micro-brewery, Nano Brewery, Pico Brewery, Nano 

Distillery and Pico Distillery 

 

23-2 Uses prohibited in an LI Zone: 
(a) Any use that may be noxious or injurious by reason of the production or emission 

of dust, refuse matter, odor, gas fumes, noise, vibrations, radiation, or similar 

substances or conditions. 

 (b) Residential use is specifically prohibited. 

 

23-3 Height: The maximum height of a building or structure in a LI Zone shall not exceed one 

hundred sixty-five (165) feet. 

 

23-4 Area: The entire lot in an LI Zone may be covered with the exception of mandatory 

open spaces hereinafter required. 

 

 

 



 

23 - 2 

23-5 Setbacks: 
 (a) Front yard, forty (40) feet. 

 (b) Side yards, ten (10) feet each. 

 (c) Rear yard, twenty-five (25) feet.  

 

23-6 Distance from an R-Zone:  Industrial activities, including construction of buildings for 

industrial use, storage of materials, and loading facilities shall not be located within 50 

feet of a R-Zone boundary.  Parking of vehicles except for automobiles that are used by 

employees and customers shall not be permitted within 50 feet of an R-Zone boundary. 

 

23-7 DELETED. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended – August 2017 – Brewery, Distillery etc.. 

Amended - March 5, 2013 - Section 23-1(7) 



 

25 - 1 

INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 24 
 

HI (HEAVY INDUSTRIAL) ZONE 
 

24-1 Permitted Uses: 
(a) Any use permitted in an LI (Light Industry) Zone, subject to the rules and 

regulations of the LI Zone. 

 (b) DELETED. 

(c) Uses customarily incidental to the above uses and necessary buildings when 

located on the same lot. 

(d) The following uses provided, however, no building, structure, or portion thereof, 

shall be hereafter erected, converted, or otherwise used for residential purposes: 

  (1) Acetylene gas manufacture and storage 

  (2) Alcohol manufacture 

  (3) Deleted  

  (4) Asphalt manufacture or refining 

  (5) Deleted  

  (6) Boiler works 

  (7) Central station light or power plant 

  (8) Deleted   

  (9) Concrete, cement products, or clay manufacture 

  (10) Cotton gin 

  (11) Deleted  

(12) Gas manufacture from coal or petroleum or the storage thereof 

  (13) Deleted  

  (14) Meat products manufacture 

(15) Deleted 

  (16) Planing Mill 

  (17) Plaster manufacture 

  (18) Plastic manufacture 

  (19) Potash works 

  (20) Power forge 

  (21) Excavation of mineral deposits including but not limited to stone, sand,  

clay, gravel, and operations incidental thereto. 

 (22) Deleted 

(23) Manufacturing of other products that is not noxious or offensive by reason 

of emission or creation of odor, dust, fumes, smoke, gas, noise, vibration, 

radiation, or similar substance. 

  (24) Deleted  

  (25) Tar distillation or tar products manufacture 

  (26) Animal kennel 

 

 

 

 



 

25 - 2 

  (27) Inert Fill Area 

Where there are no residences or residentially zoned properties located 

within 1000 feet of the boundary of the property upon which the inert fill 

area would be located, or where the finished grade of the inert fill area 

would not be greater than 10 feet in elevation above the highest elevation 

of any adjoining property. 

(28)      Petroleum products manufacture or wholesale aboveground storage of 

                                      petroleum or its products in quantities not exceeding twelve thousand  

(12,000) gallons consistent with the minimum separation requirements that  

appear in table 4.3.2.4 of NFPA 30A. Underground storage tanks shall meet  

all applicable requirements of Chapter 4 and Chapter 5 of NFPA 

(29)     Brewery, Distillery, Micro-brewery, Nano Brewery, Pico Brewery, Nano 

            Distillery and Pico Distillery 

 

24-2 Uses Permitted by Special Exception: 
(a) The following uses require a Special Exception in the HI (Heavy Industry) Zone.  

In no case shall any use listed below be allowed within 300 feet of an R-Zone 

(Residential). 

  (1) Acid manufacture, hydrochloric, nitric, picric, or sulfuric acid 

  (2) Cement, lime, clay or gypsum, or plaster manufacture  

  (3) Chlorine or similar noxious gases 

  (4) Distillation of bones 

  (5) Drop forge industries manufacturing forgings with power hammers 

  (6) Explosives, manufacture or storage 

  (7) Fertilizer manufacture 

  (8) Garbage, offal, dead animal reduction or dumping 

  (9) Glue manufacture 

  (10) Hair manufacture 

  (11) Deleted 

  (12) Processing of sauerkraut, vinegar, or yeast 

  (13) Rendering or refining of fats and oil 

  (14) Stockyard or feeding pen 

  (15) Slaughter of animals, not including the killing of fowl 

(16) Automobile wrecking or junk yards; storage, sorting, collecting, or baling 

of rags, paper, metal, or other items not usable in their current state.  These 

uses must be enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or board fence not  less 

than six (6) feet in height. 

(17) Any other use that is noxious or offensive by reason of the emission or 

creation of odor, dust, fumes, smoke, gas, noise, vibration, radiation, or 

similar substances, or conditions equal in aggregate amount to that of any 

use specified. 

(18) Inert Fill Area - Where there are residences or residentially zoned 

properties located within 1000 feet of the boundary of the property upon 

which the inert fill area would be located, or where the finished grade of 

the inert fill area would be greater than 10 feet in elevation above the 

highest elevation of any adjoining property. 

(19) Ammonia or bleaching powder manufacture 

(20) Atomic energy reactor station 

(21)     Chemical manufacture  



 

25 - 3 

(22) Creosote manufacture or treatment 

(23) Incinerator 

(24) Tanning, curing, or storage of raw hides 

(25)     Petroleum products manufacture or wholesale aboveground storage of  

 petroleum or its products in quantities exceeding twelve thousand (12,000) 

 gallons consistent with the minimum separation requirements that appear in  

table 4.3.2.4 of NFPA 30A. Underground storage tanks shall meet all  

applicable requirements of Chapter 4 and Chapter 5 of NFPA 30.11  

 

24-3 Height:   The maximum  height of a building or structure in the H-I Zone shall be three 

hundred (300) feet. 

 

24-4      Setbacks:   The setback provisions of the LI Zone shall apply to the HI Zone. 

 

24-5 Prohibited uses:  Residential use is prohibited in the HI zone. 

 

24-6 Signs: DELETED. 

 

 

24-7 Special Exceptions 

Any use established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 24-2 must 

be initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer 

be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business license 

by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable proof of 

the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use is 

initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended August 2017 – Brewery, Distillery etc…. 

Amended May 2010, Section 24-2 (11 –deleted and 25 added) 

Amended May 2010, Section 24-1 (15 – deleted and 28 added) 

Amended April 2008, Section 24-1 (uses deleted), Section 24-2 (a) (uses reassigned) 

Amended November 2007 

Amended Sept. 2004, Section 24-7 



 

25 - 4 

 

 

25-4




 

25 - 5 

SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 
 

SECTION 25 
 

HPA (HISTORIC PRESERVATION AREA) ZONE 
 

 

 

 

 

 

ENTIRE SECTION DELETED.



 

25 - A - 1 

SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 25-A 
 

PDR (PLANNED DEVELOPMENT RIVERFRONT) ZONE 
 

25-A-1 Statement of Intent:  Recognizing the value of the Savannah Riverfront as an economic, 

historic, recreational, and visual resource of tremendous value to the citizens of Augusta 

and surrounding area and further recognizing it as an area of critical and sensitive 

environmental concern, it is the intent of this section to provide for the orderly and 

aesthetic development or redevelopment of the lands adjoining the Savannah River by: 

(a) Creating a special Riverfront Development Review Board comprised of persons 

with an interest or expertise in the orderly development of this resource. 

(b) Limiting land uses to those which will provide the best utilization of the benefits 

afforded by a riverfront location. 

(c) Insuring that the regulations applicable to the riverfront will be responsive to the 

dictates of the development economy at a given time. 

(d) Setting forth sufficient design and development standards and criteria to provide 

for maximum public benefit from the further development of the riverfront area 

through a mixture of land uses, the provision and maintenance of public access, 

elimination or mitigation of negative environmental impact from development, 

aesthetic controls, and the beneficial coordination of residential, recreational, and 

commercial utilization of the riverfront lands. 

 

25-A-2 District Boundaries: The PDR (Planned Development Riverfront) Zone shall consist of 

all of that area bounded by the following: 

 

That area lying within a line beginning at the intersection of the Columbia and Richmond 

County boundary line and the centerline of the first level of the Augusta Canal; thence in 

a northeasterly direction along said boundary line to its intersection with the centerline of 

the Savannah River; thence along the centerline of the Savannah River in a southeasterly 

direction to a point intersected by a Bearing N 660 50'28"E; thence S 66050'28"W to a 

point on the south bank of the Savannah River; thence S 66050'28"W a distance of 490.15 

feet to a point; thence, N150 31' 32"W a distance of 817 feet, more or less, to a point on 

the south toe of the Augusta levee; thence along the south toe of the Augusta levee in a 

westerly direction to its intersection with the northwest right-of-way line of East 

Boundary Extended; thence along the northwest right-of-way line of East Boundary 

Extended and East Boundary in a southerly direction to a point located on the southwest 

corner of the intersection of Reynolds Street and East Boundary; thence in a southerly 

direction along the northwest right-of-way line of East Boundary a distance of 200.0 feet 

to a point; thence, in a westerly direction running parallel to Reynolds Street to a point 

located on the southeast right-of-way line of 9th Street; thence in a southwesterly 

direction along the southeast right-of-way line of 9th Street to a point located where the 

southwest right-of-way line of Jones Street Extended intersects with the southeast .right-

of-way line of 9th Street; thence in a westerly direction along the southwest right-of-way 

line of Jones Street Extended to a point located at the southwest corner of the intersection 

of Jones Street Extended and 9th Street; thence in a southerly direction along the 

northwest right-of-way line of 9th Street a distance of 100.0 feet to a point; thence in a 

westerly direction running parallel to Jones Street to its intersection with  the centerline 



 

25 - A - 2 

of Hawk's Gulley; thence in a southerly direction along the centerline of Hawk's Gulley 

Extended to the centerline of Broad Street; thence in a westerly direction along the 

centerline of Broad Street to its intersection with the centerline of the first level of the 

Augusta Canal; thence along the centerline of the first level of the Augusta Canal in a 

northwesterly direction to its intersection with the southern right-of-way of the Seaboard 

System Railroad line; thence, running in a westerly direction along the southern right-of-

way of the Seaboard System Railroad line until its intersection with the southeast right-

of-way of I-20; thence, in a northeasterly direction along the southeast right-of-way line 

of I-20 until its intersection with the centerline of the first level of the Augusta Canal; 

thence, in a northwesterly direction along the centerline of the first level of the Augusta 

Canal to the point of beginning. 

 

25-A-3 Creation of Riverfront Development Review Board. Augusta- Richmond County 

Commission shall create a Riverfront Development Review Board which shall consist of 

ten (10) members, one of whom shall reside in each of the ten districts that together 

constitute Augusta. 

 (a) Composition. The ten (10) members shall be selected from the following: 

1. One (1) member of Augusta-Richmond County Commission;  

 2. One (1) member of the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission; 

  3. One (1) member of the Augusta Port Authority; 

  4. One (1) member of the Executive Committee of Historic Augusta, Inc. 

  5. One (1) member of Augusta Tomorrow; and 

6. Five (5) residents of  Augusta-Richmond County.  

 

  Ex-officio, nonvoting members shall include: 

1. Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department  

2. Director of the Department of Housing and Neighborhood Development; 

and 

    3. Director of the Department of Public Works. 

(b) Terms of Office.  The members of the Review Board shall serve without pay.  

Initial terms should be five (5) two-year terms and five (5) four-year terms.  All 

reappointment terms thereafter shall be for four years. All members shall be 

eligible for re-appointment provided that they continue to meet the criteria for 

their original appointment. 

(c) Organization.  The Review Board shall elect one of its members as Chairman and 

one as Vice-Chairman. The Chairman shall preside over meetings of the Review 

Board and shall have the right to vote on matters brought before the Board. A 

Secretary to the Review Board shall be appointed from the Staff of the Augusta 

Planning and Development Department and shall take minutes of each meeting. A 

majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum.  By-laws governing the time and 

place of meetings and other necessary rules of procedure may be drawn and 

adopted by the Board. 

(d) Powers and Duties.  The Riverfront Development Review Board shall review all 

plans for development of properties lying within the boundaries of the PDR 

(Planned Development Riverfront) Zone.  The review shall consist of an 

evaluation of compliance with the provisions for this section and evaluation of the 

aesthetic qualities of the proposed development relative to adjacent developments.  

The Review Board shall make a recommendation in writing to the Augusta, 

Georgia Planning Commission for approval, modification, or disapproval of the 



 

25 - A - 3 

proposed development.  No site plan shall be approved or building permit issued 

until such written recommendation has been received and considered by the staff 

of the Augusta Planning and Development Department, provided, however, that 

such recommendation shall be transmitted no later than 45 days after receipt or 

the proposed development shall be deemed to be approved by the Review Board. 

(e) An annual meeting shall be held on the second Tuesday of January each year at 

10:00 a.m. at the office of the Planning and Development Department, and other 

meetings may be held at any time after proper notice on an as-needed basis. 

 

25-A-4 Permitted Uses. The following uses may be permitted in the PDR (Planned 

Development Riverfront) Zone: 

 (a) Food stores 

 (b) Apparel and accessory stores 

 (c) Water-based transportation and recreational facilities 

 (d) Eating and drinking places 

 (e) Florist and gift shops 

 (f) Newsstands and bookstores 

 (g) Beauty and barber shops 

 (h) Automobile parking lots and parking structures 

 (i) Marine equipment sales and services 

  (j) Professional offices 

 (k) Governmental facilities and activities 

 (l) Furniture and/or home furnishing stores 

  (m) Antique shops 

 (n) Drugstores 

 (o) Sporting goods stores 

 (p) Jewelry shops 

 (q) Hobby, toy and game stores 

 (r) Camera and photographic supply shops 

 (s) Tobacco shops 

(t) Hotels, motels, or other lodging places except boarding houses, manufactured 

home parks or travel trailer parks 

 (u) Personal or business service establishments 

 (v) Entertainment establishments as follows: 

  1. Motion picture theaters 

  2. Performing arts theaters and studios 

  3. Museums and art galleries   

4. Other entertainment, cultural, and educational establishments, upon 

approval of the Planning Commission 

(w) Residential uses, all types, provided that the density shall be approved by the 

Riverfront Development Review Board. 

(x) The following manufacturing type activities provided they are carried out in 

conjunction with on-site retail sale of finished products: 

  1.  Bakery 

  2.  Confectionery 

  3.  Leather goods 

  4.  Pottery and related products 

  5.  Glass and glassware 

  6.  Jewelry making 



 

25 - A - 4 

  7.   Metal craft products 

(y) Uses not specified may be permitted upon approval of the Planning Commission. 

 

25-A-5 Development Standards and Requirements 

(a) Yard and Setback Requirements.  There shall be no minimum lot size, side 

or rear setback, percentage of lot coverage or lot width, provided, 

however, that measures are taken to provide reasonable visual and 

acoustical privacy for dwelling units and that no building or structure shall 

be constructed so as to encroach within the designated flood way of the 

Savannah River. 

(b) Public Access.  Application for approval of development in the PDR zone 

shall include provisions for public access from a publicly- owned or 

maintained roadway to that portion of the property designated as and 

defined by the 100-Year Floodplain limit line under an Ordinance entitled 

"An Ordinance to Prevent Damage From Floods; To Regulate Land Uses 

in the Flood Plain, and for Other Purposes." 

1. Public access areas shall consist of the designated 100 Year 

Floodplain and one (1) twenty (20) foot access  easement for every 

three hundred (300) feet of river frontage, or portion thereof, to be 

occupied by the proposed development. 

2. The flood way and access easements shall be dedicated to the 

Augusta-Richmond County Commission, be suitably landscaped, 

and contain a walkway of sufficient width and surfaced with an all-

weather material as approved by the Department of Public Works 

to facilitate pedestrian movement to and from the public roadway. 

3. Said easement shall be permanently maintained by the owner, 

developer, or an association of owners or residents having 

responsibility for common areas within the proposed development. 

4. All public access easements shall be clearly marked as such with a 

permanent sign of not less than three (3) square feet in area. 

(c) Building Design and Site Planning Standards. The following special 

building design and site planning standards shall apply in the PDR Zone. 

1.  All development in the PDR zone shall comply with an Ordinance 

entitled "An Ordinance to Prevent Damage From Floods; To 

Regulate Land Uses in the Flood Plain, and For Other Purposes" 

and approval of development plans under the provisions of this 

section shall not constitute approval under other applicable codes 

and ordinances. 

2. No fencing along the exterior property lines of any development in 

the PDR zone shall be permitted unless the proposed fence is 

integrated completely with the design of the buildings, i.e. similar 

in materials, design, and detailing.  Developers are required to 

fence or screen off-street parking and loading areas from view 

from public roadways utilizing a four (4) foot fence, screen, or 

landscaped earthen berm. 

3. All construction in a PDR zone shall be of the following materials:  

brick, stucco, poured-in-place architectural concrete, exposed 

aggregate pre cast panels, and wood siding where appropriate and 

permitted by codes. Unacceptable construction materials include 



 

25 - A - 5 

metal siding, concrete block, and high maintenance finishes such 

as paint on concrete block.  Exceptions to the provisions of this 

subsection may be granted for additions or modifications to 

existing buildings, or for construction on the same parcel and in 

close proximity to existing buildings.  Exceptions may be granted 

only in the case of hardship where it is determined that the 

aesthetics of the surrounding area would not be adversely affected. 

4.  All mechanical equipment and service areas shall be screened from 

view from adjacent roads and pedestrian ways, other structures, 

and the Levee by structures or devices integral to the architecture 

of the building.  Wherever practicable, all utility systems in the  

development shall be underground.  

5. Preservation of existing trees on-site is required.  Applications for 

approval of development plans in the PDR Zone shall show the 

location and type of all existing trees having a diameter 

measurement of ten (10) inches measured at a height of four (4) 

feet above ground level and shall indicate which of these trees are 

to be retained.  Removal of trees of that size or larger is prohibited 

except where necessary to allow construction of buildings; needed 

for street rights-of-way, walkways, and ancillary structures such as 

patios; the tree is diseased, injured, or otherwise may pose an 

unsafe visibility or sight distance; or unduly restricts the economic 

use of the property.  Where it is necessary to remove existing trees, 

the developer is required to replace them with planting elsewhere 

on-site. 

6. All development proposed for the PDR zone will be reviewed for 

its impact on or utilization of historic and potentially historic 

structures.  Developers are encouraged to coordinate adaptive 

renovation and use of existing structures with the appropriate local 

agencies or organizations having an interest in historic 

preservation. 

 

25-A-6 Application Requirements: 
(a) An application for approval of development plans in the PDR Zone shall be made 

to the Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. 

Eleven copies of the plans shall be provided to allow transmittal to the members 

of the Riverfront Development Review Board at least seven (7) days prior to the 

date of the Review Board meeting. Upon receipt of an application, the Executive 

Director shall cause the members of the Review Board to be notified of the date, 

time, and place of the meeting and shall transmit copies of the proposed 

development plans to the membership. 

(b) An application for review of the development plans shall include: 

1. A boundary and topographic plat of the land to be included in the entire 

development showing all rights-of-way and easements affecting the 

property.  

2.  A plat showing any new building lots and their boundaries along with the 

square footage contained in each and the location and rights-of-way of 

proposed streets and public pedestrian ways.  



 

25 - A - 6 

3. The location of existing and proposed buildings and the number of stories 

contained in each.  

4. The location and elevation of the water supply, sanitary, and storm 

drainage systems. 

5. The location and type of all common areas along with a statement of the 

method to be used to insure the continued maintenance of such areas. 

  6. The location of all curb cuts, driving lanes, and parking areas.  

  7. The location and height of all walls, fences, and screen plantings. 

8. A statement of proposed uses on a building by building basis and, where 

applicable, on a floor by floor basis. 

9. Architectural drawings indicating the proposed appearance of each 

elevation and a general statement regarding exterior colors and materials. 

10. The proposed location and character of signs and exterior  lighting, service 

areas and doors, and loading facilities. 

11. A landscaping plan showing the location, size, and type of all plant 

materials whether existing or proposed. 

12. For residential developments, a tabulation of the total area, number of 

dwelling units, off-street parking spaces and overall density per acre. 

(c) Upon completion of its review, the Riverfront Development Review Board shall 

transmit its findings along with recommendations for modifications, if any, to the 

Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and Development Department who 

shall process the proposed development plans in accordance with the Zoning 

Ordinance and the Land Subdivision Regulations for Augusta Commission, if 

applicable. 

(d) Any change in the approved development plan which affects the intent and 

character of the development, the density or land use pattern, the location or 

dimensions of streets or other access ways, or similar changes shall be reviewed 

in the same manner as set forth above. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended Sept. 2012 – add  25-A-3(e) 



 

25 - B - 1 

SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 

SECTION 25-B 

SCA (SPECIAL SIGN CONTROL AREA) DISTRICT 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ENTIRE SECTION DELETED



 

25 - C - 1 

SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 
 

SECTION 25-C 
 

RIVER WATCH PARKWAY 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ENTIRE SECTION DELETED



 

25 - D - 1 

SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 

SECTION 25 - D 

SAVANNAH RIVER CORRIDOR PROTECTION DISTRICT 

25-D-1 Statement of Intent  The intent of the regulations with this Zoning District is to limit 

the use of the Savannah River Corridor, in conjunction with other government entities 

along the Savannah River Corridor, in order to:  

 

(a) Assure that the Savannah River in the City of Augusta will not become polluted 

and unsuitable as a source for potable water; 

(b) Protect the river corridor by establishing a natural vegetative buffer area 

bordering the river; 

(c) Preserve those qualities that make the river corridor suitable as a habitat for 

wildlife; 

(d) Help control erosion and to absorb flood waters; and 

(e) Protect and safeguard the health and welfare of all the citizens of the City of 

Augusta by providing protection of the section of the river that is or may be used 

as a source of drinking water. 

 

25-D-2 Description of District  The limits of the Savannah River Corridor Protection (SRCP) 

District are hereby defined to be all areas within 100 feet horizontally of the river, 

measured from the river bank.  This area shall remain in an undisturbed vegetative 

buffer.  The 100-foot buffer is measured from the uppermost part of the river bank, 

usually marked by a break in slope.  Although not within the buffer area, the area 

between the top of the river bank and the water's edge shall be included in the SRCP 

district. 

 

 Because these protective measures allow some latitude with land uses, and because the 

District is not intended to prescribe a specific land use but rather to define a range of 

acceptable land uses, the Savannah River Corridor Protection District is designed as an 

overlay district.  Within the range of land uses which can be located within the District, 

this Section establishes performance standards which apply to development within the 

District.  The regulations of the underlying zoning district shall be maintained and not 

affected, except in the event of conflict or discrepancy between the SRCP District and 

the underlying district.  In that case, the more stringent requirements shall be observed. 

 

25-D-3 Establishment and Maintenance of Natural Buffer  Except as permitted under this 

section, all construction of buildings or structures is prohibited within the SCRP 

District, and the existing natural vegetative buffer within 100 feet of the river bank shall 

remain undisturbed. 

 

25-D-4 Permitted Uses and Conditions  The following uses are permitted, subject to certain 

conditions, within the one hundred-foot (100') buffer of the SRCP District.  Any 

permitted use must also comply with the applicable  regulations of the underlying 

zoning classification. 

 (a) Single-family dwellings, including the usual accessory structures and 

appurtenances, are subject to the following conditions: 



 

25 - D - 2 

1. The dwelling shall be located on a tract of land containing at least two 

acres and meeting all other zoning regulations. 

2. There shall be only one such dwelling on each two-acre or larger tract of 

land.  

3. A septic tank or tanks serving such a dwelling may be located within the 

buffer area;  however, septic tank drain fields shall not be located within 

the buffer area. 

(b) Industrial and commercial land uses existing prior to the adoption of the Savannah 

River Corridor Protection District, provided that: 

  1. Industrial and commercial uses shall not impair the drinking quality of the  

   river water as defined by the Federal Clean Water Act, as amended. 

2. Industrial and commercial activity within the SRCP district shall meet all 

applicable State and Federal environmental rules and regulations. 

3. Septic tanks and septic tank drain fields serving industrial and commercial 

uses are prohibited within the buffer area. 

(c) The construction of road crossings and utility crossings, provided that the 

construction of said crossings shall meet all requirements of the Augusta-

Richmond County Soil and Sediment Control Ordinance. 

 (d) Agricultural production and management, subject to the following conditions: 

1. Agricultural activity shall be consistent with best management practices 

established by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission; 

2. Agricultural activity shall not impair the water quality of the river water as 

defined by the Georgia Clean Water Act; 

3. Agricultural activity shall be consistent with all applicable State and 

Federal environmental regulations, and all regulations promulgated by the 

Georgia Department of Agriculture. 

 (e) Timber production and harvesting, subject to the following conditions: 

1. Forestry activity shall be consistent with best management practices 

established by the Georgia Forestry Commission. 

2. Forestry activity shall not impair the drinking water quality of the river 

water as defined by the Georgia Clean Water Act. 

(f) Wildlife and fisheries management activities consistent with the purpose of 

O.C.G.A.12-2-8. 

 (g) Wastewater treatment facilities. 

 (h) Natural water quality treatment or purification facilities. 

(i) Recreational uses consistent either with the maintenance of a natural vegetative 

buffer or with river-dependent recreation.  For example, paths, walkways, boat 

ramps would be consistent with this criteria, but parking lots and hard-surface 

tennis court would not. 

(j) Other uses as permitted by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources or under 

Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act. 

 

25-D-5 Prohibited Uses  The following uses are prohibited within the one hundred-foot (100') 

buffer of the SRCP District. 

 (a) Handling areas for the receiving and storage of hazardous wastes; 

 (b) Disposal facilities for hazardous or solid wastes; and 

(c) All construction activities within the buffer area, except as provided for in Section 

25-D-6 (Exempt Uses. 

 



 

25 - D - 3 

25-D-6 Exempt Uses  The following uses are exempt from the one hundred-foot (100') buffer 

requirements of the SRCP District: 

(a) Land uses existing prior to the adoption of the Savannah River Corridor 

Protection District; 

(b) Mining activities, if permitted by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources; 

and 

(c) Utilities, if such utilities cannot feasibly be located outside the buffer area, as 

determined by the local government, provided that: 

1. The utilities shall be located as far from the river bank as reasonably 

possible; 

2. Installation and maintenance of the utilities shall be such as to protect the 

integrity of the buffer area to the extent reasonably possible; 

3. The natural vegetative buffer shall be restored as quickly as possible 

following any construction utility construction; and 

  4. Utilities shall not impair the drinking quality of the river water. 
 

 

 



 

25 - E - 1 

SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 

SECTION 25 -E 

OVERLAY DISTRICTS 

 

25-E-1  STATEMENT OF INTENT: Overlay zoning is an established method of creating 

special zoning districts placed over existing base zoning.  The purpose of overlay zoning is to 

provide additional protection and/or guidance for specific areas through regulations and/or 

incentives that are applied in addition to the base zoning requirements. 

 

Overlay districts are tools for implementing plans by protecting critical areas for groundwater 

recharge, floodplains, or prime farmland.  They could also be used to protect the character of 

neighborhoods, commercial districts, and corridors.  They could guide development more 

carefully than base zoning by identifying future urban zones and mixed use areas, and they could 

protect critical impact zones such as airports from encroachment. 

 

25-E-2  METHOD OF DESIGNATION:  Areas which conform to the intent expressed in 25-1 

and the criteria in Section 25-4 may be considered for designation as Overlay Districts. Such 

designations shall be done on an individual basis by amending the text of the Comprehensive 

Zoning Ordinance and the maps attached thereto.  Designations shall be made as additions to this 

Section, setting forth the name and geographic description of the overlay district and the 

additional special regulations and incentives attached thereto.  Designation of overlay districts 

shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 35 of this Ordinance. 

 

25-E-3  APPLICATION:  The following are empowered to apply for designation of an Overlay 

district: The Augusta Commission or any department thereof; the owners of at least 10 

contiguous properties, or the owners of 10 percent of the total number of properties within a 

proposed district. 

 

The application for designation of an overlay zone shall be accompanied by all supporting 

documentation including the proposed geographical boundaries for the proposed area, the 

complete text of the proposed additional requirements and/or incentives, a thorough explanation 

and justification for the proposed designation, and a fee set by the City of Augusta that is 

sufficient to cover the cost of staff time, public notification, and other expenses.  Applications 

from the Augusta Commission or departments thereof shall not be required payment of fee. 

 

When an application is received by the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department, a determination shall be made regarding its completeness.  If incomplete, it shall be 

returned to the applicant.  If deemed complete then within 30 days of receipt, written notice of 

the application shall be sent by the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department 

by regular mail to the owners of all properties located within the proposed district, as shown on 

the current records of the Tax Assessor’s Office.  The notice shall set forth the purpose of the 

district, the geographic limits, the name(s) of the applicants, and the date and time for a public 

hearing to be held for the purpose of receiving input regarding the proposed Overlay District.  At 

the time that such notice is given, the application shall be deemed accepted, and the procedures 

set forth in Section 35 of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance shall be followed. 

 

25-E-4  CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION – An application for designation of an overlay 

district shall conform to the following criteria in order to be considered by the Augusta 

Commission, whether initiated by the City or by another party: 



 

25 - E - 2 

 

a) The area must be of contiguous geography and it must be characterized by some 

significant common element, be it environmental sensitivity, period of development, 

neighborhood character, future development potential, or something similar; and 

 

b) The full text of the proposed additional requirements for the proposed overlay district 

must be provided at the time of the application for designation.  Such additional 

requirements must be reasonable to facilitate the intent and purpose of the designation 

as well as the Goals, Objectives, Intent and Purpose of the Comprehensive Plan and 

other pertinent plans adopted by the City of Augusta.; and  

 

c) The benefits of the proposed additional regulations to the public health, safety, and 

welfare shall be sufficiently documented to clearly indicate that they are more 

significant than the sum of potential effects of diminished property values and other 

detrimental impacts of the designation. 

 

25-E-5  ADMINISTRATION AND APPEALS:  The staff of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department shall administer the provisions of this section.  Within an approved 

Overlay District any application for approval of a site plan, subdivision plat, special exception, 

variance, rezoning, building permit or business license shall be reviewed by staff for 

conformance with the additional requirements of the applicable overlay zone.  If deemed 

inconsistent with the requirements of this section, then such application shall be rejected.  The 

applicant may appeal such staff decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) provided such 

appeal is heard within 90 days of the staff decision.  The applicant in such situations is 

responsible for filing an application with the BZA and paying such fees as provided for in this 

Ordinance or in the bylaws of the BZA. 

 

25-E-6  PRE-EXISTING OVERLAY ZONES:  Anything provided for in the Comprehensive 

Zoning Ordinance that might be construed as an Overlay District which pre-dates the adoption of 

this section shall not be subject to the regulations set forth in this section. 

 

25-E-7  OVERLAY DISTRICT “W4”: This is an Overlay District to be known as “W4” which 

is located on the western boundary of the Laney Walker/Bethlehem Neighborhood. It is 

described as beginning at the intersection of  R. A. Dent Boulevard and Holley Street; thence, 

south on Holley Street to the intersection of the rear property lines extended of properties 

fronting Wrightsboro Road; thence, east on those property lines to their extended intersection 

with Augusta Avenue; thence; south on Augusta Avenue to Poplar Street; thence, west on Poplar 

Street to Woodson Street; thence north on Woodson Street to Roulette Lane; thence, west on 

Roulette Lane to Floyd Street; thence, south on Floyd Street to Poplar Street; thence, west on 

Poplar Street to Fifteenth Street; thence, north on Fifteenth Street to Wrightsboro Road; thence, 

north on Wrightsboro Road to R. A. Dent Boulevard; thence, north on R. A. Dent Boulevard to 

the point of beginning.  

 

W-4 is an area targeted for redevelopment by the City and the purpose of this Overlay is to 

promote mixed uses while maintaining the primarily residential character. Land uses established 

after the effective date of this amendment shall be limited to the following: 

 

a) residential, including single family and low density multi-family, provided the 

density shall be approved by the Planning Commission,  



 

25 - E - 3 

b)   professional offices, including former residences that can be converted into 

      professional office space,  

c)   institutional uses, including schools, churches, and other religious institutions,  

d)  neighborhood retail, including, apparel and accessory stores,  

e)  florist and gift shops,  

f)  newsstands and bookstores,  

g)  beauty and barber shops,  

h)  furniture and/or home furnishing stores,  

i)   antique shops,  

j)   drug stores and pharmacies,  

k)  sporting goods stores,  

l)   hobby, toy and game stores,  

m) camera and photographic supply shops,  

n)  tobacco shops,  

o)  office supplies/print shops,  

p)  sandwich shops, coffee shops, and sit-down eating establishments,  

q)  dry cleaners, grocery stores,  

r)  youth recreational facilities ( i.e. YMCA, skating rinks),  

s)  movie theaters.  

*Permitted uses that are not specified in the above Neighborhood Retail list must 

be approved by the Planning Commission 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended by adding 25-E-7 February 2012 

Adopted July 2011 



 

25 - F - 1 

PROFESSIONAL OFFICE PARK DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION 

 

SECTION 25-F 

 

POPD (PROFESSIONAL OFFICE PARK DISTRICT) ZONE 

 

25-F-1 Statement of Intent: The intent of this section is to provide for development of 

professional office buildings and parks, and certain service and retail uses which are compatible 

with, and supportive of, professional office buildings and parks.  

 

25-F-2 Permitted Uses: The following land uses are permitted in a POPD (Professional Office 

Park District) Zone, subject to staff approval of the plan: 

 

a) Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services. 

b) Advertising. 

c) Adult day-care. 

d) Child day-care services, including outdoor play areas 

e) Computer programming, data processing and other computer related services (other than 

sales, leasing or rental activities, or repairs). 

f) Consulting services, unclassified. 

g) Consumer credit reporting agencies, collection agencies, etc. 

h) Dental laboratories. 

i) Depository institutions. 

j) Engineering, architectural and surveying services. 

k) Health services, offices and clinics. 

l) Holding and other investment offices. 

m) Insurance agents, brokers and services. 

n) Legal services. 

o) Libraries. 

p) Mailing, reproduction, commercial art and photography and 

q) Stenographic services. 

r) Management and public relations services. 

s) Non-depository credit institutions. 

t) Office buildings of all types. 

u) Open Space, Park and recreation facilities, public or private (noncommercial). 

v) Passenger transportation arrangement (travel agent). 

w) Personnel supply services. 

x) Radio and TV broadcasting stations. 

y) Real estate services. 

z) Religious organizations. 

aa) Security and commodity brokers, dealers, exchanges and services. 

bb) Tax return preparation services. 

cc) Telephone, telegraph and other message communication services. 

dd) Accessory uses, subject to the limitations in Section 25-F-2 and Section 25-F-4 

ee) Temporary sales and events subject to the provisions of Section (Section of City Code 

regulating such an event) 

ff) Special uses listed in the Use Matrix may be permitted, and are subject to the issuance of 

a special use permit pursuant to the provisions of the applicable section of the city code.  



 

25 - F - 2 

25-F-3 Size of Tract: The minimum size of any tract to be zoned and developed in a 

Professional Office Building District shall be twenty-five (25) acres and the tract shall have 

permanent paved access to a paved public road or a road to be paved and dedicated to the public. 

 

25-F-4 Area Limitations: 

 

a) Office Uses: A maximum of seventy-five (75%) percent of the total area of the proposed 

development may be devoted to office uses. 

 

b) Accessory Uses: A maximum of five percent (5%) of the remaining area of the tract may 

be devoted to the permitted accessory uses listed in Section 25-F-2. It shall exclude 

portions of the tract devoted to usable open space and recreational uses. 

 

c) Open Space, Park and Recreation Facilities, Public or Private (noncommercial): A 

minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the area of the tract shall be devoted to 

noncommercial open space, and recreation facilities. The area reserved for recreational 

and/or open space uses shall be held in common for the enjoyment of the occupants of 

the office development and accessory uses. 

 

Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area. 

 

25-F-5 Area: 

 

a) The minimum size of any tract to be zoned and developed in a Professional Office Park 

District shall be twenty-five (25) acres. 

 

25-F-6 Height:  

 

a) The maximum height of a building shall not exceed twelve (12) stories or one hundred 

forty-four (144) feet from the finished grade. 

, 

25-F-7 Setbacks - Buildings:  

a) Front Setback: There shall be a front yard setback in a POPD zone of not less than one 

hundred (100) feet from any structure to an adjoining street right-of-way. 

 

b) Side and Rear Setbacks: There shall be a side and rear yard setbacks in a POPD zone of 

not less than twenty (20) feet from any structure to an adjoining property line zoned or 

used for agricultural or residential use. Structures over twenty (20) feet in height shall be 

set back an additional one (1) foot for every two (2) feet in height over twenty (20) feet.  

 

There shall be a side and rear yard setbacks in a POPD zone of not less than ten (10) feet 

from any structure to an adjoining property zoned or used for office, commercial or 

industrial uses. 

 

 25-F-8 Setbacks - Parking:  

 



 

25 - F - 3 

a) There shall be a setback in a POPD zone of not less than forty (40) feet from any parking 

space to an adjoining street right-of-way. 

 

b) There shall be a setback in a POPD zone of not less than fifty (50) feet from any parking 

space to an adjoining property zoned or used for agricultural or residential use. 

 

c) Where a POPD zone adjoins property zoned or used for office, commercial or industrial 

use, the setback for any parking space shall be the same as required by the zoning of the  

office, commercial or industrial use. 

 

25-F-9 Development and Performance Standards: 
a) Building Orientation: All buildings shall be oriented toward street frontage unless an 

exception is granted to improve the site design or to facilitate the use of solar power. 

 

b) Parking: Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the 

requirements set forth in Section 4 of this Ordinance. 

 

c) Streets: Internal streets intended to be dedicated to Augusta, Georgia, as well as any 

internal private streets shall conform to the requirements of the Street and Road Design 

Technical Manual. 

 

d) Signage: Signage shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in 

Section 28-B of this ordinance. 

 

e) Landscaping and Buffers: Natural landscaping and buffers shall be provided in 

accordance with the requirements of the Augusta Tree Ordinance and Tree Ordinance 

Illustrated Guide (Chapter 8-4-1 thru 8-4-17 of the Augusta, Georgia Code). 

 

f) Outdoor Displays and Equipment: No merchandise shall be stored or displayed outside 

buildings, and no equipment or vehicles, except for passenger vehicles, shall be stored 

outside buildings. 

 

g) Noise: Noise levels should not exceed those specified in Chapter 3-6-1 thru 3-6-4 of the 

Augusta, Georgia Code. 

 

h) Merchandise Sales: Sale of merchandise from a vehicle or temporary structure is 

prohibited, except as provided for by a temporary sales and events permit.  

 

25-F-10 Traffic Impact Analysis: An application for approval of a project in a POPD 

(Professional Office Park District) Zone shall include a traffic impact analysis to determine 

whether the roadway network in the area of the proposed development will be able to handle the 

existing through traffic, plus the additional traffic that the development will generate. 

 

a) General Requirements of Traffic Impact Analysis 

 



 

25 - F - 4 

1. The analysis shall be prepared by a Professional Engineer registered with the 

State of Georgia with expertise in traffic engineering. 

  

2. Prior to completing the Traffic Impact Analysis, the applicant and the 

Professional Engineer shall hold a scoping meeting with the Planning and 

Development Director and the City Traffic Engineer to determine the following 

parameters for the analysis: Trip generation assumptions; Growth Rate for future 

year traffic estimation; Trip distribution; Pass-by traffic and/or internal capture; 

Non-traditional peak hour studies, if required; Whether or not truck or heavy 

vehicle distributions need to be considered separately; Any other approved 

development applications within the study area; Funded capital improvement 

projects that will increase the capacity of the roadways in question; Site 

construction phasing; and If a signal warrant analysis for high volume un-

signalized intersections is needed. 

 

3. The City will prepare a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that outlines the 

agreements made during the scoping meeting. The applicant shall return the 

signed MOU to the Planning and Development Director. The Professional 

Engineer cannot begin work on the analysis until both the City and the applicant 

have signed the MOU. 

 

b) Traffic Analysis Study Area Boundary 

 

1. The analysis study area shall at a minimum include any roadways and 

intersections within one-half mile of the development application proposal. 

  

2. The study area may be modified if the Planning and Development Director:  

 

 Determines a larger study area or additional roadways or intersections for 

analysis are required due to the size or characteristics of the development 

application proposal; or  

 Waives the need to study roadways or intersections that are determined 

not to be significantly affected by the development application proposal, 

as long as all key intersections within the study area are studied. 

 

c) Traffic Analysis Period: The analysis shall examine future traffic conditions one year 

after the development application proposal is scheduled to be completed (build +1).  

 

d) Traffic Analysis Software: The study shall be performed using the operational analysis 

of the latest Highway Capacity Manual and traffic analysis software approved by the city 

of Augusta.  Other software packages, such as Synchro, are preferred for coordinated 

signal systems, and may be required for supplemental analysis.  

 

 

 



 

25 - F - 5 

 

 

 

25-F-11 Application Procedures: 

 

a) An application for rezoning of property to POPD (Professional Office Park District) shall 

be accompanied by a preliminary development plan for the subject property. 

 

b) The preliminary development plan shall include, at a minimum: 

1. A boundary and topographic plat of the land showing all rights-of-way and 

easements affecting the property.  

2. A plat showing the proposed location of buildings, including the number of 

stories and square footage contained in each, the location of areas reserved for 

open space, park and recreation facilities and the location of all curb cuts, driving 

lanes, parking areas and pedestrian ways.  

3. A statement of proposed uses on a building by building basis. 

4. Elevation drawing of a typical building 

5. The traffic impact analysis as required by Section 25-F-10 of this ordinance. 

6. A general landscaping plan for the entire site. 

7. A signage plan for the entire site. 

8. If applicable, a project phasing plan as required by Section 25-F-12 of this 

ordinance. 

 

c) Assuming the rezoning is approved by the Augusta Commission, the applicant will then 

follow the procedures and requirements of the Augusta Site Plan Regulations in obtaining 

final approval of the site plan for the property. 

 

d) The approved final plat and approved site plan are binding and shall be a restriction on 

development which runs with the land. Any unauthorized deviation therefrom shall be 

punishable and enforceable as a violation of this section. 

 

25-F-12 Project Phasing: In the event that a project will be completed in phases, the following 

shall apply: 

 

a) The applicant shall submit a phasing plan as part of the application. 

  

b) Each phase shall be designed to “stand alone” so that if subsequent phases are not 

constructed, the completed portion of the project constitutes a coherent development 

logically interconnected with surrounding areas. 

 

c) Certain project elements, such as open space and recreational amenities, must be 

provided for each phase of development in rough proportion to the size of the particular 

phase within the whole project. In certain circumstances, this may also require that 

infrastructure improvements shown within a later phase of the project be constructed 

within an earlier phase, or appropriate securities provided to ensure that construction 

occurs even if the later phase never takes place. 



 

25 - F - 6 

 

 

25-F-13 Time Limit and Extensions: The following time limits apply to projects located in a 

POPD zone: 

 

a) Approval of a site plan shall be valid for five years from the date approved. Construction 

on any and all phases must be complete for final approval within five years of the date of 

site plan approval. 

b) Approval may be extended by resolution of the Augusta Commission for a maximum of 

two (2) additional years; provided, that: 

1. A written request for extension has been received at least 30 days prior to the date 

of expiration; and 

2. The applicant demonstrates that extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances have 

precluded compliance with the five-year time limit. 

 

25-F-14 Enforcement: If the applicant does not begin, and substantially complete the approved 

project, or any phase of the project, within the established time limits, the Planning and 

Development Director shall review the project and may recommend to the Augusta Commission 

that: 

 

a) The time for its completion be extended, upon a showing that the project can be 

completed within six months, and that the applicant has posted bond or other acceptable 

securities to ensure completion of any unfinished work; or 

b) That the approval of the project be revoked. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

District Established May 2014 

 



 

25- G - 1 

 

SECTION 25-G 

MXUD (MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT) ZONE 

 

 

25-G-1 Statement of Intent: The intent of this section is to provide for development of mixed-

use developments that spur revitalization, promotes efficient use of land and infrastructure, 

guides development toward established areas and encourage high quality design that is 

compatible with the surrounding area. 

 

25-G-2 Permitted Uses: The following land uses are permitted in a Mixed Use Development 

District Zone (MXUD), subject to staff approval  

a) residential, including single family and low density multi-family, provided the 

density shall be approved by the Planning Commission 

b) professional offices, including former residences that can be converted into 

professional office space 

c) residential, including single family and low density multi-family, provided the 

density shall be approved by the Planning Commission 

d) professional offices, including former residences that can be converted into 

professional office space 

e) institutional uses, including schools, churches, and other religious institutions, 

f) neighborhood retail, including, apparel and accessory stores 

g) florist and gift shops  

h) newsstands and bookstores 

i) beauty and barber shops 

j) furniture and/or home furnishing stores 

k) antique shops 

l) drug stores and pharmacies  

m) sporting goods stores 

n) hobby, toy and game stores  

o) tobacco shops  

p) office supplies/print shops  

q) sandwich shops, coffee shops, and sit-down eating establishments 

r) dry cleaners, grocery stores 

s) recreation facilities and open space  

*Uses that are not in the above list must be approved by the Planning Commission 

 

25-G-3 Eligible Applicants: Eligible applicants for designation of an MXUD include the 

following: 

c) The owner of all the property involved, if under one ownership; or 

 

d) An application filed jointly by all owners having title to all the property in the area 

proposed for the planned unit development project, if there be more than one owner; or 

 

e) A person having an interest in the property to be included in the planned unit 

development.  

 



 

25- G - 2 

 

f) The planned unit development application shall be in the name or names of the recorded 

owner or owners of property included in the development.  

 

g) The application may be initially filed by holder(s) of an equitable interest in or option on 

such property; provided, that written permission from the property owner(s) is included 

with the application. In such cases, the applicant must evidence a full ownership interest 

in the land (either legal title or the execution of a land sales agreement) before final 

approval of the applicant’s plan. 

25-G-4 Size of Tract: The minimum size of any tract to be zoned and developed in a MXUD 

shall be twenty (20) acres and the tract shall have permanent paved access to a paved public road 

or a road to be paved and dedicated to the public. 

 

25-G-5 Area Limitations: Specific uses should be identified at the time of application for 

rezoning 

a) Housing: A maximum of forty percent (40%) of the total acreage of the proposed 

development may be used for housing. 

 

b) Office and Retail Uses: A maximum of fifteen percent (15%) of the proposed 

development may be used for permitted office and retail uses. 

 

c) Institutional Uses: A maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the proposed 

development may be used for permitted office and retail uses. 

 

d) Open Space / Recreation: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the overall acreage of 

the tract shall be dedicated to open space and recreation. A minimum of ten percent 

(10%) of the overall acreage shall be dedicated to usable open space and recreation. 

 

Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area. 

 

25-G-6 Height:  

a) The maximum height of a building shall not exceed five (5) stories or ninety (90) feet 

from the finished grade. 

25-G-7 Setbacks - Buildings:  

d) Front Setback: There shall be a front yard setback in a MUXD zone of not less than forty 

(40) feet from any structure to an adjoining street right-of-way. The front yard setback 

may be reduced in an urban location. 

 

e) Side and Rear Setbacks: There shall be side and rear yard setbacks in a MUXD zone of 

not less than fifty (50) feet from any structure to an adjoining property line zoned or used 

for agricultural or residential use. Structures over fifty (50) feet in height shall be set back 

an additional one (1) foot for every two (2) feet in height over fifty (50) feet.  

 

f) There shall be a side and rear yard setbacks in a MUXD zone of not less than twenty-five 

(25) feet from any structure to an adjoining property zoned or used for office, commercial 

or industrial uses. 



 

25- G - 3 

 

 25-G-8 Setbacks - Parking:  

c) There shall be a setback in a MXUD zone of not less than twenty (20) feet from any 

parking space to an adjoining street right-of-way. 

 

d) There shall be a setback in a MXUD zone of not less than twenty(20) feet from any 

parking space to an adjoining property zoned or used for agricultural or residential use. 

 

e) Where a MXUD zone adjoins property zoned or used for office, commercial or industrial 

use, the setback for any parking space shall be the same as required by the zoning of the 

adjoining zone. 

25-G-9 Development and Performance Standards: 

f) Building Orientation: All buildings shall be oriented toward street frontage unless an 

exception is granted to improve the site design or to facilitate the use of solar power. 

 

g) Parking: Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the 

requirements set forth in Section 4 of this Ordinance. The number of required off-

street parking spaces may be reduced where shared parking arrangements can be 

demonstrated, and up to ten percent (10%) of the required spaces can be compact car 

spaces. Bicycle parking must be provided at a rate of one bike space for every ten 

vehicle parking spaces. Bicycle parking racks or lots must meet the guidelines 

recommended by the Association of Pedestrian and Bicycle Professionals. 

 

h) Streets: Internal streets intended to be dedicated to Augusta, Georgia, as well as any 

internal private streets shall conform to the requirements of the Street and Road 

Design Technical Manual. 

 

i) Signage: Signage shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in 

Section 28-B of this ordinance. 

 

j) Landscaping and Buffers: Natural landscaping and buffers shall be provided in 

accordance with the requirements of the Augusta Tree Ordinance and Tree Ordinance 

Illustrated Guide (Chapter 8-4-1 thru 8-4-17 of the Augusta, Georgia Code). 

 

k) Indoor / Outdoor Operations: All permitted uses in the MXUD zone must be 

conducted within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise expressly 

authorized. This requirement does not apply to off-street parking or loading areas, 

automated teller machines or outdoor seating areas. 

 

l) Noise: Noise levels should not exceed those specified in Chapter 3-6-1 thru 3-6-4 of 

the Augusta, Georgia Code. 

 

m) Merchandise Sales: Sale of merchandise from a vehicle or temporary structure is 

prohibited, except as provided for by a temporary sales and events permit. 

25-G-10 Project Phasing: In the event that a project will be completed in phases, the following 

shall apply: 

a) The applicant shall submit a phasing plan as part of the application. 

  



 

25- G - 4 

 

b) Each phase shall be designed to “stand alone” so that if subsequent phases are not  

constructed, the completed portion of the project constitutes a coherent development 

logically interconnected with surrounding areas. 

 

c)  Certain project elements, such as open space and recreational amenities, must be provided    

      for  each phase of development in rough proportion to the size of the particular phase 

      within the whole project. In certain circumstances, this may also require that 

      infrastructure improvements shown within a later phase of the project be constructed 

      within an earlier phase, or appropriate securities provided to ensure that construction 

      occurs even  if the later phase never takes place. 

 

d) The approved final plat and approved MXUD site plan are binding and shall be a 

restriction on development which runs with the land. Any unauthorized deviation 

therefrom shall be punishable and enforceable as a violation of this title. 

 

25-G-11 Traffic Impact Analysis: An application for approval of a MXUD shall include a 

traffic impact analysis to determine whether the roadway network in the area of the proposed 

development will be able to handle the existing through traffic, plus the additional traffic that the 

development will generate. 

a) General Requirements of Traffic Impact Analysis: 

 

1. The analysis shall be prepared by a Professional Engineer registered with the 

State of Georgia with expertise in traffic engineering. 

  

2. Prior to completing the Traffic Impact Analysis, the applicant and the 

Professional Engineer shall hold a scoping meeting with the Planning and 

Development Director and the City Traffic Engineer to determine the following 

parameters for the analysis: Trip generation assumptions; Growth Rate for future 

year traffic estimation; Trip distribution; Pass-by traffic and/or internal capture; 

Non-traditional peak hour studies, if required; Whether or not truck or heavy 

vehicle distributions need to be considered separately; Any other approved 

development applications within the study area; Funded capital improvement 

projects that will increase the capacity of the roadways in question; Site 

construction phasing; and If a signal warrant analysis for high volume un-

signalized intersections is needed. 

 

3. The City will prepare a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that outlines the 

agreements made during the scoping meeting. The applicant shall return the 

signed MOU to the Planning and Development Director. The Professional 

Engineer cannot begin work on the analysis until both the City and the applicant 

have signed the MOU. 

 

b) Traffic Analysis Study Area Boundary 

  



 

25- G - 5 

 

1. The analysis study area shall at a minimum include any roadways and 

intersections within one-half mile of the development application proposal. 

 

      2.   The study area may be modified if the Planning and Development Director:  

 

 Determines a larger study area or additional roadways or intersections for 

analysis are required due to the size or characteristics of the development 

application proposal; or  

 Waives the need to study roadways or intersections that are determined 

not to be significantly affected by the development application proposal, 

as long as all key intersections within the study area are studied. 

 

c) Traffic Analysis Period: The analysis shall examine future traffic conditions one year 

after the development application proposal is scheduled to be completed (build +1).  

 

d) Traffic Analysis Software: The study shall be performed using the operational analysis 

of the latest Highway Capacity Manual and traffic analysis software approved by the City 

of Augusta. Other software Packages, such as Synchro, are preferred for coordinated 

signal systems and may be required for supplemental analysis.  

25-G-12 Time Limit and Extensions: The following time limits apply to approved PUD and 

MXUD projects: 

a) The MXUD approval, and the approval of any associated preliminary plat or other land 

division approval, shall be valid for five years from the date approved by the Augusta 

Commission. Construction on any and all phases must be complete for final MXUD 

approval within five years of the preliminary MXUD approval;  

 

b) A MXUD and any associated preliminary plat or other land division, may be extended by 

resolution of the Augusta Commission for a maximum of two (2) years; provided, that: 

 

1.    A written request for extension has been received at least 30 days prior to the 

      date of expiration; and 

 

2. The applicant demonstrates that extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances have 

precluded compliance with the five-year time limit. 

25-G-13 Enforcement: If the applicant does not begin, and substantially complete the planned 

unit development, or any phase of the planned unit development, within the established time 

limits, the Planning and Development Director shall review the planned unit development and 

may recommend to the Augusta Commission that: 

 

a) The time for its completion be extended, upon a showing that the project can be 

completed within six months, and that the applicant has posted bond or other acceptable 

securities to ensure completion of any unfinished work; or  

 

b) That the approval of the planned unit development be revoked 

 



 

25- G - 6 

 

Items for Analysis Useful Software2  

 Multiple Intersections Synchro  

 Isolated Signalized Intersections Synchro  

 Isolated Unsignalized Intersections Synchro, HCS  

 Simulation SimTraffic, VISSIM, CORSIM  

 Roundabouts SIDRA, VISSIM  

 Roadway Segment HCS  

 Merge, Diverge, and Weave HCS  

 

 Use of alternate analysis software must be approved by the City of Augusta; however the above 

software is not specifically endorsed by the City. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

District Established November 2014



 

26 - 1 

SPECIAL DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS 

 

SECTION 26 

 

SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS 

26-1 The following Special Exceptions may be permitted in any Zone where such uses are 

deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare and are in harmony 

with the various elements or objectives of the Master Plan/Planning Document in effect.  

All applications for a Special Exception under this subsection shall be accompanied by a 

preliminary development plan that shows the location of all buildings associated with the 

proposed use and the number of stories contained in each building.  The preliminary 

development plan must also show the location of all curb cuts, driving lanes, parking 

areas, and the location of all walls, fences and screen plantings that exist or are planned. 

 

(a) Church, synagogue, or other place of worship, or their related activities including, but 

not limited to, the care for fewer than nineteen (19) children under the age of eighteen 

(18) for not more than four (4) hours per day, subject to the following  criteria: 

 

 (1) A tract upon which a church is to be established shall have at least one 

hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector street or an arterial street and 

be at least one-half acre in area. 

(2) Structures shall be set back at least twenty-five (25) feet from any property 

line separating the subject property from residentially zoned or developed 

properties. 

 (3) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. 

(4) DELETED. 

(5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be 

submitted to the Planning Commission before the proposal is placed on 

the agenda.  The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the 

foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits 

of the proposed church are greater than any possible depreciating effects 

and damages to the neighboring properties. 

 (b) Private schools subject to the following criteria: 

(1) A tract upon which a private school is to be established shall have at least 

one-hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector street or an arterial 

street. 

(2) A circular drive or similar layout that discourages backing and encourages 

through movement of traffic shall be provided for off-street loading and 

unloading, and the parking layout shall conform to Section 4 of this 

Ordinance. 

(3) A private school shall be screened from contiguous residentially zoned or 

developed properties by a wall, solid fence, or vegetative buffer at least six 

(6) feet in height. 

 (4) Signage shall comply with the SCA requirements for institutional uses.  

(5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be 

submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning 

Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have 



 

26 - 2 

been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed school are 

greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the 

neighboring properties.  

  (c) Utility substation subject to the following criteria: 

(1) Use of the property as a substation shall be essential for service to the area 

in which the substation is to be located. 

(2) A tract upon which a utility substation is to be erected shall have frontage 

on a collector or arterial street. 

 (3) No personnel shall be assigned to the site; the utility shall be unmanned. 

(4) Outside storage of vehicles, equipment, and supplies on the premises shall 

not be permitted. 

(5) If the base zoning is agricultural, residential, or professional, then any 

building or structure which exceeds 25 feet in height when measured from 

ground elevation shall be set back not less than fifty (50) feet from any 

property line. 

  (6) DELETED. 

(7) A substation shall be screened from contiguous residentially zoned or 

developed properties by a wall, solid fence, or vegetative buffer at least six 

(6) feet in height.  

(8) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be 

submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning 

Commission  shall  determine  that  all  of  the  foregoing requirements 

have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed utility 

substation are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages 

to the neighboring properties.  

 (d) Nursing home subject to the following criteria: 

(1) A tract upon which a nursing home is to be established shall have at least 

one hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector or an arterial street. 

 (2) DELETED.  

(3) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. 

(4) Nursing homes shall not be located in areas where the health, safety, and 

welfare of the residents would be compromised.  Examples of such areas 

would be those near industrial sites or other sites where environmental 

quality would be poor, and also areas where law enforcement records 

indicate that the incidence of crime is high. 

(5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be 

submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning 

Commission shall determine that all of the requirements have been 

satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed nursing home are 

greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the 

neighboring properties. 

 (e) Adult day care facility subject to the following criteria: 

(1) A tract upon which an adult day care facility is to be established shall have 

at least one hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector or an arterial 

street. 

(2) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. 



 

26 - 3 

(3) An adult day care facility may not be established within twelve hundred 

(1200) feet of a lawfully existing family day care home, family personal 

care home, transition housing, or another adult day care facility located in 

A, R or P zones. 

(4) Adult day care facilities shall not be located in areas where the health, 

safety, and welfare of the residents would be compromised.  Examples of 

such areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites where 

environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law 

enforcement records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. 

(5) DELETED. 

(6) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be 

submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning 

Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have 

been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed adult day care 

facility are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to 

the neighboring properties. 

 (f) Family day care home subject to the following criteria: 

(1) A family day care home may not be established within twelve hundred 

(1200) feet of a lawfully existing family personal care home, transition 

housing, adult day care facility, or another family day care home located 

in A, R or P zones. 

(2) There shall be adequate indoor and outdoor play areas to meet Georgia 

DHR standards. Outdoor play areas shall be designed for daytime use only 

with no special illumination, and they shall be screened from contiguous 

residential zones or development by a solid fence, wall or vegetative 

buffer at least six (6) feet in height. 

  (3) Parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. 

  (4) DELETED. 

(5) Family day care homes shall not be established in areas where the health, 

safety, and welfare of the residents would be compromised. Examples of 

such areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites where 

environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law enforce- 

ment records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. 

(6) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall be 

submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department before the proposal is placed on the agenda. The Planning 

Commission shall determine that all of the foregoing requirements have 

been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed family day 

care home are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages 

to the neighboring properties. 

 (g) Transition housing subject to the following criteria: 

(1) Transition housing may not be established within twelve hundred (1200) 

feet of a lawfully existing family personal care home, family day care 

home, adult day care facility, or other transition housing in A, R or P 

zones. 

 (2) DELETED. 

(3) Transition housing shall not be located in areas where the health, safety, 

and welfare of the residents would be compromised.  Examples of such 



 

26 - 4 

areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites where 

environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law 

enforcement records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. 

(4) The Planning Commission shall determine that the foregoing requirements 

have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed transition 

housing are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to 

neighboring properties. In conducting this balancing test, the merit of the 

specific proposal shall be determined by evaluating the nature of the 

clientele (i.e. elderly, mentally retarded, halfway home for recovering 

addicts, etc.) the proposed number of occupants, and the nature of the 

operators of the facility (homeowners, professional staff, or untrained 

supervisory staff, etc.). 

(5) Approval, if granted shall be for a specific proposal, and any change in the 

nature of the clientele or increase in the number of occupants shall require 

another special exception. 

 (h) Family personal care home subject to the following criteria: 

(1) A family personal care home may not be established within twelve 

hundred (1200) feet of a lawfully existing family day care home, adult day 

care facility, transition housing, or another family personal care home in 

A, R, or P zones. 

  (2) DELETED. 

(3) A family personal care home shall not be located in areas where the 

health, safety, and welfare of the residents would be compromised.  

Examples of such areas would be those near industrial sites or other sites 

where environmental quality would be poor, and also areas where law 

enforcement records indicate that the incidence of crime is high. 

(4) A family personal care home must meet the requirements set forth in  

Section 28-F Personal Care Homes of this ordinance.  

(5) The Planning Commission shall determine that the foregoing requirements 

have been satisfied, and further, that the benefits of the proposed family 

personal care home are greater than any possible depreciating effects and 

damages to neighboring properties.  In conducting this balancing test, the 

merit of the specific proposal shall be determined by evaluating the nature 

of the clientele (i.e. elderly, mentally retarded, etc.), the proposed number 

of occupants, and the nature of the operators of the facility (homeowners, 

professional staff, or untrained supervisory staff, etc.). 

(i) Club (private or public), lodge (nonprofit), golf course, country club, tennis 

facilities, privately owned and operated recreational facility, swimming pool, 

fishing lake, or similar recreational use subject to the following criteria: 

(1) The minimum size tract for a golf course or country club shall be 

fifty (50) acres. 

(2) A tract to be developed as a golf course or country club shall have 

at least one hundred (100) feet of frontage on a public or private 

road. 

(3) Structures except fences and walls shall be set back at least fifty 

(50) feet from property lines separating the property from 

contiguous properties zoned or developed for residential use. 

(4) Lighting shall be designed so that adjacent properties are not 

adversely affected. 



 

26 - 5 

   (5) Outdoor activities shall cease at 11:00 P.M. 

(6) Lounges, clubhouses, and similar facilities shall be designed and 

operated for use by members and their guests, or patrons who are 

using the club or recreational facility.   Lounges, clubhouses and 

similar facilities shall be located at least one hundred (100) feet 

from contiguous properties zoned or developed for residential use. 

 (7) DELETED. 

(8) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall 

be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department before the proposal is placed on the 

agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the 

foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the 

benefits of the proposed club, privately owned and operated 

recreational facility, swimming pool, fishing lake, or similar 

recreational use are greater than any possible depreciating effects 

and damages to the neighboring properties. 

 (j) Funeral homes subject to the following criteria: 

(1) A tract upon which a funeral home is to be established shall have 

at least one hundred (100) feet of frontage on a collector street or 

an arterial street and be at least one acre in area. 

(2) Structures shall be set back at least twenty-five (25) feet from any 

property line separating the subject property from residentially 

zoned or developed properties.  

 (3) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. 

 (4) DELETED. 

(5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall 

be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department before the proposal is placed on the 

agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the 

foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the 

benefits of the proposed funeral home are greater than any possible 

depreciating effects and damages to neighboring properties. 

(k) Private hospital subject to the following criteria: 

(1) A tract upon which a private hospital is to be established shall have 

at least two hundred fifty (250) feet of frontage on a collector or an 

arterial street and be at least five acres in area. 

 (2) DELETED. 

 (3) Off-street parking shall conform to Section 4 of this Ordinance. 

(4) Private hospitals shall not be located in areas where the health, 

safety, and welfare of the patients would be compromised.  

Examples of such areas would be those near industrial sites or 

other sites where environmental quality would be poor, and also 

areas where law enforcement records  indicate that the incidence of 

crime is high. 

(5) A plan illustrating compliance with the above requirements shall 

be submitted to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department before the proposal is placed on the 

agenda. The Planning Commission shall determine that all of the 

foregoing requirements have been satisfied, and further, that the 



 

26 - 6 

benefits of the proposed hospital are greater than any possible 

depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties. 

(l) Airport or aircraft landing field. 

  (m) Cemetery. 

  (n) Sanitary Landfill 

  (o) Inert Fill Area 

(p) Uses which would in any way involve detained persons, or persons who 

would be or have been retained from correction facilities such as halfway 

homes, or similar uses that in any way relate to corrections or 

incarceration. 

(q)  Excavation of mineral deposits including but not limited to stone, sand,  

clay, gravel, and operations incidental thereto may be permitted subject to 

the following criteria: 

 

(1) Evidence that  a Mined Land Use Plan, pursuant to 391-3-3-05 of the 

 Georgia Environmental Rules, is being prepared for submission to Georgia 

 E.P.D.  No mining activity may be conducted without an approved Mined 

 Land Use Plan.  

 

(2)  Submission of a plat prepared by a Georgia Registered Land Surveyor 

at the time of the application showing conformance to the following 

spacing requirements: 

(a)  No activity under this Subsection shall be conducted within 

300 feet of a residence 

(b)  No activity under this Subsection shall be conducted within 

100 feet of an R-zone boundary unless a consent form provided by 

the Planning Commission and signed by the affected property 

owners is provided with the application. 

(c)  No activity under the Subsection shall be conducted within 50 

feet of any property line unless a consent form provided by the 

Planning Commission and signed by affected property owners is 

provided with the application. 

 

(2) Submission of supporting data at the time of application indicating that 

the  impacts of the proposed activity including but not limited to noise, 

vibration, dust, stormwater, groundwater and aesthetics will not 

substantially diminish the quality of life of the surrounding 

community.  This data may be part of the Mined Land Use Plan or it 

may be a separate submission. 

 

(r) Group Day Care Homes and Day Care Centers subject to the following 

criteria: 

(1) Such uses shall have adequate parking per Section 4 of this 

Ordinance. 

(2) Such uses shall not be established on property that is within 100 

feet from a single family residence in a residential zone on another tract. 

(3) Such uses shall be established on  tracts with at least 100 feet of 

frontage on a collector or arterial streets. 



 

26 - 7 

(4)  Such uses established in  A, R. or P zones shall not be located 

within 1,200 feet of another use provided for in Section 26 of this 

Ordinance. 

(5) Such uses established in  R zones shall not exceed 1.5 times the 

average gross floor area of single family homes located within 300 feet 

of the property to be occupied by the day care center. 

(6)  Such uses established in  R zones may operate only between the 

hours of 6:00 A.M. and 9:00 P.M., after which time all activities must 

cease and all illumination other than typical residential security lighting 

shall be eliminated. 

(7) Such uses shall require approval of a site plan and conformance to 

the Augusta Tree Ordinance. 

(8) Signage for such uses located in  R zones shall be as permitted in 

the P-1 zone. 

 

(s)    Crematoriums– subject to the following restrictions and  

    regulations. 

(a)    Cremation facilities are allowed as an accessory use wherein the 

       funeral home is identified as the  primary use. 

(b)       Accessory cremation facilities shall be located at least two hundred 

      (200) feet from contiguous properties zoned or developed for  

      residential use. 

(c) Cremation facilities that are considered “stand-alone” shall be 

located at least two thousand five hundred (2,500) feet from 

contiguous properties zoned or developed for residential use. 

(d) Cremation facilities shall be consistent with all applicable state 

permit and licensing requirements. 

(e) No crematory incinerator shall have a discharge of smoke that 

exceeds ten percent (10%) ambient air.  

(f) The owner/operator shall record the hours of operation and total 

daily cremation rate for the facility: 

 

1.   No cremation activity on Monday – Friday between the 

      hours of 5 PM - 9 PM and during the weekend, 4 PM – 

      9 PM. Such activity shall not include the cooling down 

      period of the furnace which may take 1 to 2 hours. 

2.   Each human crematory operation shall record the daily 

      cremation rate in bodies per day. 

3. Each animal crematory operation shall record the daily 

cremation rate in pounds per day. 

(g)   Cremation facilities shall be consistent with all applicable state 

permit and licensing requirements. 

(h)       Records of the daily cremation rate and the facility’s hours of 

      operation shall be maintained on site in written or electronic logs. 

  

 

 

 



 

26 - 8 

(t)       Mini-Warehouse / Self-Service-Storage Facilities over 4 stories or 75 feet               

      must be approved by Special Exception under the guidelines set forth in 

      Permitted Uses (Section 22-1- b-9) 

 

(u)  Lodging or Boarding House shall conform to the following performance  

 standards: 

 

(1) The Lodging or Boarding House (herein referred to as House) must 

meet all code requirements for health, safety, and welfare of the 

occupants. Plans must be submitted for review by the Building 

Department and Fire Department. Plans must conform to the following, 

but may not be limited to: 

 

a) International Building Code 

b) International Plumbing Code  

c) International Mechanical Code 

d) International Gas Code 

e) National Electric Code 

f) ADA 

g) Life Safety Codes 

h) International Energy Conservation Code 

 

Proof of compliance must be submitted with the application for 

Certificate of Occupancy and/or business license. 

 

(2) The maximum number of residents allowed for the House is dependent 

upon the specifications in the Home Design Requirements Section 

below and compliance with Building and Fire Dept. occupancy and 

safety determination. Under no circumstances may the House exceed 

the determined occupancy. 

 

(3) Only the primary residential structure may be utilized for the purposes 

of this request. No accessory structure may be constructed or modified 

to accommodate residents. 

 

(4) Upon approval of the House an applicant shall make no alternations or 

additions to the structure for the purpose of increasing the occupancy 

unless an amended application is presented and approved. 

 

(5) If the House fails to maintain compliance with all building, safety, 

health, and zoning requirements it shall be grounds for termination of 

the Special Exception and/or business license and the owner/operate 

shall thereafter be required to discontinue the use of the premises as a 

Lodging House or Boarding House.  

 

(6) Home Design Requirements: 

 

 



 

26 - 9 

 

Home Design Spacing Requirements Summary Table  

Category Requirement 

Living Room 3-5 persons in residence =                               120 sq. ft. 

6 or more persons in residence   =                   150 sq. ft. 

Dining Room 3-5 persons in residence =                                80 sq. ft. 

6 or more persons  in residence  =                   120 sq. ft. 

Bedroom or private living 

spaces 

Per person in residence =                                   80 sq. ft. 

Functional toilet and lavatory * Per 4 residents =                                   1 functional toilet 

Showering facility * Per 4 residents =              1 bathing or showering facility 

 

*The House must comply with all ADA requirements. 

 

(7) Off Street Parking Requirements: 

 

Off-Street parking must be provided at one (1) space for each two (2) 

beds and one (1) space for the owner/resident manager. 

 

(Allowance may be made by the Planning and Development Staff, on a 

case by case basis, if public transportation is available/utilized by the 

residents and/or on-street parking is available.) 

 

 

 

Section 26-2 

 

Any use, other than churches or church related activities approved under 26-1 (A), 

established as a result of a Special Exception granted per Subsection 26-1 must be 

initiated within six (6) months of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no longer be 

valid.  Special Exceptions for churches or church related activities granted per 26-1 shall 

initiate a use within five (5) years of the granting, or the Special Exception shall no 

longer be valid.  The initiation of a use is established by the issuance of a valid business 

license by the Augusta Planning and Development Department or by other reasonable 

proof of the establishment of vested rights.  If a Special Exception is granted and the use 

is initiated but later ceases to operate for a period of one (1) year, then the Special 

Exception shall no longer be valid.   

 

 

Amended – August 2018 – Section 26-1 (t) and (u) 

Amended - August 2015 – Section 26-1 (s) 

Amended - June 2015 – Section 26-1 (h) (4) 

Amended - June 2013 – Section 26-1(b) 

Amended - May 2013 – added Section 26-1 (r) 

Amended - July 2011 – Section 26-1 (a) 

Amended - September 2010, 26-1(q) (1) 

Amended - November 2007, Section 26-1(q) 

Amended - August 2006, Section 26-2 

Amended - Sept. 2004, Section 26-2 



 

26 - 10 

 

26 - 10




 

27 - 1 

OTHER REGULATED USES 

SECTION 27 

MANUFACTURED HOME REGULATIONS 

27-1 Establishment of Manufactured Home Parks: New Manufactured Home Parks and 

expansion of existing Manufactured Home Parks shall be permitted only in R-MH 

(Manufactured Home Residential) Zones. 

 

27-2 Procedure for constructing or altering a Manufactured Home Park: Application 

shall be made for doing same to the Augusta, Georgia  Planning Commission.  The 

application shall be in letter form and shall show the following: 

 

  Name and address of applicant 

  Name and address of owner of land 

  Name and address of proposed operator 

  Number of spaces proposed to be provided 

  Acreage of land to be utilized  

 

The application shall be accompanied by five copies of a plat of the land to be utilized. 

The plats shall show the following: 

 

  Bearings and distances for all property lines 

  Names and right-of-way widths for all streets bounding the property 

  Names and addresses of all surrounding property owners 

  Distances to nearest public water mains and sewer lines  

 Topography showing contours at 2-foot intervals and referenced to Mean Sea 

Level 

  Scale (not smaller than 1 inch = 100 feet) and North Arrow 

  Name and Registration Number of Surveyor or Engineer 

 

The application for plan approval shall also be accompanied by a processing and 

investigation fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The Planning Commission shall hold 

a public hearing on every application for establishment or expansion of a Manufactured 

Home Park.  In the event that the land proposed to be utilized for a Manufactured Home 

Park is not properly zoned, application for rezoning and application for plan approval 

may be made at the same time if all necessary submittals for plan approval are provided 

prior to application for rezoning.  Public notice shall be given for plan approval, as well 

as for hearings on changes of Zoning Classification, when such approvals are not sought 

simultaneously. The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove each application 

for establishment or expansion of a Manufactured Home Park within thirty (30) days 

after holding a public hearing thereon, unless the applicant agrees to a longer time period; 

and the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall notify the 

applicant in writing of its decision. 

 

27-3 Building permit for Manufactured Home Park: Accompanying a request for the 

establishment or expansion of a Manufactured Home Park, or upon request to alter such a 

park, the applicant shall submit to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development 



 

27 - 2 

Department plans and specifications for the development of such park in accordance with 

the requirements of this Ordinance. The Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department shall review such plans and specifications, and shall determine that all 

requirements of this Ordinance and other legal requirements have been met. In 

conducting its review, the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department 

shall submit copies of such plans and specifications to the Public Works Department, the 

Waterworks Department, to the Chief Building Official and the Richmond County Health 

Department.  The Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department has 

received in writing the approval of all required agencies and has made its own 

determination that all requirements of this Ordinance and all other legal requirements 

have been met or will be met in the course of establishment, expansion, or alteration of 

the park, it shall certify the same in writing. to the Chief Building Official and shall 

forward to the Chief Building Official a copy of the approved plans and specifications.  

The Chief Building Official may then issue building permits for construction, expansion, 

or alteration of the Manufactured Home Park in accordance with the application made 

and plan and specifications approved for same and in accordance with all legal 

requirements.  

 

27-4 Transfer of Manufactured Home Parks: Every Manufactured Home Park owner shall 

give notice in writing to the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department 

within thirty (30) days after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed 

of interest in or control of any Manufactured Home Park. Such notice shall include the 

name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such park. 

 

27-5 Conditions pertaining to existing Manufactured Home Parks:  Manufactured Home 

Parks operating at the time of adoption of this Ordinance shall be allowed to continue 

operation provided that the minimum requirements of the Richmond County Board of 

Health are met by such parks. 

 

27-6 Standards for development of Manufactured Home Parks: 
(a) Minimum Size of Tract: The minimum size of any tract to be developed for a 

Manufactured Home Park shall be five (5) acres and such tract shall have a 

minimum frontage on a paved public road or road to be paved and dedicated to 

the public of one hundred (100) feet. The tract shall comprise a single parcel and 

shall be and remain in the ownership of one person as defined herein.  

(b) Code Standards: No manufactured home manufactured on or after January 1, 

1968 shall be admitted to any Manufactured Home Park on or after the date of the 

adoption of this Ordinance unless it can be demonstrated that it meets the 

requirements of one of the following: American Standards Association Code 

Provision A-119.1-1963, American Standards for Installation in Manufactured 

Home of Electrical, Heating, and Plumbing Systems; or Manufactured Home 

Manufacturer Association Manufactured Home Standards for Plumbing, Heating 

and Electrical Systems; or any state or locally-administered code insuring equal or 

better plumbing, heating, or electrical installations.  

(c) Hazardous Conditions:  No Manufactured Home Park shall be so located as to be 

subjected to hazards of flood, poor soil conditions, poor drainage, or other 

hazardous conditions.  

(d) Every Manufactured Home Park shall be provided with a public water supply and 

public sewage disposal system.  Individual septic tank systems may be utilized in 



 

27 - 3 

lieu of public systems provided they are developed in accordance with the 

provisions of the Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Ordinance. 

(e) Setback and Screening:  No manufactured home, accessory structure, or other 

building in a Manufactured Home Park shall be located closer than fifty (50) feet 

from any park property line abutting any public street or highway nor closer than 

twenty (20) feet from any other Park property line. All Manufactured Home parks 

located adjacent to industrial or commercial land uses shall be provided with a 

screening buffer strip at least ten (10) feet wide along the property boundary lines 

separating parks and such adjacent nonresidential uses. Such screening shall 

consist of a solid fence not less than eight (8) feet in height or of evergreen 

vegetation of sufficient density to accomplish the purposes of a solid fence.  Such 

screens shall be maintained in good order at all times.  

(f) Streets: Streets within Manufactured Home Parks shall be privately owned, 

constructed and maintained. Alignment and gradient shall be properly adapted to 

topography, to safe movement of traffic, to adequate control of surface water, 

ground water, and drainage.  No street shall be provided with less than an all-

weather surface. The type of road surface shall be determined by the Public 

Works Department. All streets shall have either concrete curbs, asphalt curbs or 

paved swells.  The following widths shall be provided for surfaced portions of 

streets. 

(1) Class One Streets (less than 500' in length and serving 25 spaces or less on 

a two-way street):  one way with no curbside parking - 11 feet; one way 

with curbside parking on one side only - 18 feet; one way with curbside 

parking on both sides - 24 feet; two way with no curbside parking - 22 

feet; two way with curbside parking on one side- 27 feet; two way with 

curbside parking on both sides- 34 feet. 

 (2) Class Two Streets (other than Minor Streets serving up to and including 

200 spaces with no other limitation on length):  one way with no parking- 

28 feet; two way with no parking - 24 feet; one way with parking on one 

side- 24 feet; two way with parking on one side - 29 feet; one way with 

parking on two sides - 26 feet; two way with parking on two sides - 36 

feet. 

(3) Class Three Streets (serving more than 200 spaces without limitation on 

length): same as for Collector streets but requiring sidewalks on at least 

one side. Such sidewalks shall be at least 3 feet wide and shall be paved. 

(4) At Access Points: where internal park streets intersect with public streets, 

the internal street shall have a surfaced width of 24 feet. 

 (g) Space Standards: 

(1) Every manufactured home space within a Manufactured Home Park shall 

have an area of not less than 4,000 square feet with a minimum width at 

all points of 40 feet.  Every such space shall have all corners clearly 

marked. 

(2) Each manufactured home space shall be directly accessible from an 

approved internal park street.  No direct access to manufactured home 

spaces from public streets shall be granted. 

(3) Manufactured homes shall be separated from each other by not less than 

fifteen (15) feet end to end and twenty (20) feet side by side.  

(4) Each manufactured home space shall be provided with a concrete patio of 

at least one hundred (100) square feet which shall be convenient to the 



 

27 - 4 

entrance of the manufactured home.  An awning may be placed over such 

patio, but no structure shall be placed thereon. 

(5) The minimum distance between manufactured homes located on opposite 

sides of an internal street shall be 36 feet. 

(6) Expandable rooms on manufactured homes shall be deemed an integral 

part of the manufactured home and shall meet all requirements stated 

herein. 

(h) Parking shall be provided at the minimum rate of one and one-half spaces for each 

manufactured home space.  If such parking is provided on each manufactured 

home space, it shall be at the minimum rate of one and one-half spaces for each 

manufactured home space and each space shall have minimum dimensions of ten 

(10) feet by  twenty (20) feet.  If provided in common off-street parking bays, the 

following standards shall apply: 

 

PARKING 

ANGLE 

CURB LENGTH 

PER CAR 

MINIMUM BAY 

DEPTH* 

MINIMUM BACKING 

DEPTH* 
 900  9.0' 18' 24' 

 600 12.5' 17' 20' 

 250 12.7' 16' 19' 

  * Perpendicular to curb 

 

(i) Illumination:  Adequate illumination on all streets and sidewalks shall be 

provided to insure the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.  Such 

illumination shall create no direct glare into surrounding areas. 

 (j)   Fire Protection: 

(1) All Manufactured Home Parks shall be equipped with fire protection 

equipment as required by the latest locally adopted codes. 

(2) Portable fire extinguishers of an approved type shall be kept in service 

buildings and at all other appropriate locations and shall be maintained in 

good operating condition. 

(3) Standard fire hydrants shall be located with adequate access within 500 

feet of any part of a building used as a manufactured residence or 

accessory use. 

(k) Landscaping and Ground Cover: It is the intent of this Section of this Ordinance 

that the areas provided for setbacks shall be appropriately landscaped and planted 

so as to provide a pleasing appearance to surrounding property. Further, ground 

cover in the form of grass or other vegetation shall be provided throughout every 

Manufactured Home Park so as to provide pleasant and, insofar as practicable, 

dust-free conditions. 

(l) Recreation: Not less than ten (10) percent of the total area of every Manufactured 

Home Park shall be reserved and developed for a recreation area. Such area shall 

be centrally located within each Manufactured Home Park and shall contain 

individual areas which shall be equipped for passive adult recreation, children's 

play, and a fenced tot lot. If a swimming pool is furnished, it shall be separated 

from all other uses by a fence having a gate which is capable of remaining closed. 

Required setbacks shall not be counted as part of the required recreation area. 

            

Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation Area 

 



 

27 - 5 

27-7 Locating Individual Manufactured Homes on Individual Lots:  Individual 

manufactured homes may be permitted on individual lots, parcels, or tracts in A 

(Agriculture) or R-MH (Manufactured Home Residence) Zones under the following 

conditions: 

(a) Individual manufactured homes shall conform to all requirements of the zone in 

which the homes are located. 

(b) Individual manufactured homes in A (Agriculture) Zones shall be located at least 

150 feet from any previously existing permanent dwelling. 

 (c) DELETED. 

(d) No manufactured home shall be located on any lot, parcel, or tract occupied by 

any other dwelling or manufactured home, and only one manufactured home shall 

be located on each individual lot, parcel, or tract. 

(e) Any manufactured home located on an individual lot, parcel, or tract shall be 

installed in accordance with  O.C.G.A. Title 8, Chapter 2, Article 2, Part 3, and 

shall be provided with a solid skirting / curtain wall enclosure constructed of 

masonry to include stone, faux stone, brick, faced block, or stucco with the 

required vents. 

(f) No manufactured home shall be located on an individual lot, parcel, or tract until 

the location has been approved by the Staff of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department, the Chief Building Inspector, and the Richmond 

County Health Department. 

 

27-8 Nonconforming Individual Manufactured Homes:  Manufactured homes on individual 

lots, parcels, or tracts which were in place on January 1, 1980 are declared to be legal 

nonconforming uses at their current location; provided however, that said manufactured 

homes may not be altered or expanded in any way unless the alteration or expansion 

results in conformance with this Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended – Section 27-7(e) – June 2011 



 

28 - 1 

SECTION 28 

AIRPORT REGULATIONS 

28-1 General Regulations:  The following general regulations shall apply to all airports 

encompassed by the area of this Ordinance. 

(a) Flight Zones:  All land within the boundaries of Daniel Field and within two (2) 

miles of the landing area of the airports within Augusta, Georgia, are hereby 

divided into Airport Approach Zones and Airport Turning Zones. The inner-area 

of the Airport Approach Zones are shown on the Airport Approach Standards 

Maps by reference made a part hereof. The turning zones and the outer-area of the 

Airport Approach Zones are that area within two (2) miles of the boundaries of 

the landing area and the inner-area of the Airport Approach Zones. The Airport 

Approach Standards Maps may be revised or replaced from time to time to 

correspond with zone restrictions and approach standards, as required by the 

Airport Manager and/or the Civil Aeronautic Authority. 

(b) Height Limits:  Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, no structure or 

tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any Airport 

Approach Zone or Airport Turning Zone to a height in excess of the height limit 

herein established for such zone.  For the purpose of this regulation, the following 

height limits are hereby established for each of the zones in question:  

(1) Inner-area Airport Approach Zones- as shown on Airport Approach 

Standards Maps. 

(2) Outer-area Airport Approach Zones- one hundred and fifty (150) feet 

above the elevation of the boundaries of the airport landing area. 

(3) Turning Zones- one hundred and fifty (150) feet above the boundaries of 

the airport landing area. 

(c) Use Restrictions:  Not withstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, no use 

may be made of land within any Airport Approach Zone or Airport Turning Zone 

in such a manner as to create electrical interference with radio communication 

between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for fliers to distinguish between 

airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of fliers using the airport, or 

otherwise endanger the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft. 

(d) Hazard Marking and Lighting:  Variances from this Ordinance granted by the 

Board of Zoning Appeals may be so conditioned as to require the owner of the 

structure or tree in question to permit the Augusta, Georgia Commission, to 

install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be deemed 

necessary to indicate to fliers the presence of the airport hazard. 

(e) Future Airports: The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to future airports 

located within the area encompassed by this Ordinance. 

(f) If in conflict with these regulations, the provisions of CFR 49 Part 77 shall govern 

the maximum height of obstacles to aviation in Augusta. 

 

28-2 Bush Field Airport Regulations: 
(a) Definitions:  As used in this portion of the Ordinance, unless the content 

otherwise requires, the following definitions shall be used: 

(1) Airport Elevation means the established elevation of the highest point on 

the usable landing area. 



 

28 - 2 

(2) Airport Hazard means any structure, tree, or use of land which obstructs 

the airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft 

in landing or taking-off at the airport. 

(3) Airport Reference Point means the point established as the approximate 

geographic center of the airport landing area and so designated. 

(4) Height - for the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set 

forth in this Ordinance and shown on the Zoning Map, the datum shall be 

mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified. 

(5) Instrument Runway means a runway equipped or to be equipped with 

electronic or visual air navigation aids adequate to permit the landing of 

aircraft under restricted visibility conditions. 

(6) Landing Area means the area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff, 

or taxing of aircraft. 

(7) Nonconforming Use means any structure, tree, or use of land which is 

lawfully in existence at the time the regulations are prescribed in this 

Ordinance or an amendment thereto becomes effective and does not then 

meet the requirements of said regulations. 

(8) Non-instrument Runway means a runway other than an instrument 

runway. 

(9) Person means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, 

association, joint stock association, or body politic, and includes a trustee, 

receiver, assignee, administrator, executor, guardian, or other 

representative. 

 (10) Runway means the paved surface of an airport landing strip.  

(11) Structure means an object constructed or installed by man, including, but 

without limitation, buildings, towers, smoke- stacks, and overhead 

transmission lines. 

 (12) Tree means any object of natural growth. 

(b) Zones:  In order to carry out the provisions of this Ordinance, there are hereby 

created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying within 

the Instrument Approach Zones, Non-instrument Approach Zones, Transition 

Zones, Horizontal Zone, and Conical Zone. Such areas and zones are shown on 

the Bush Field Airport Zoning Map consisting of one sheet prepared by the 

Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission and dated March 8, 1982, 

which is attached to this Ordinance and made a part hereof. The various zones are 

hereby established and defined as follows: 

(1) Instrument Approach Zone- An Instrument Approach Zone is established 

at each end of the instrument runway for instrument landings and takeoffs. 

The Instrument Approach Zone shall have a width of one thousand (1,000) 

feet at a distance of two hundred (200) feet beyond each end of the 

runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of sixteen thousand 

(16,000) feet a distance of fifty thousand two hundred (50,200) feet 

beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation of the 

centerline of the runway. 

(2) Non-instrument Approach Zone- A Non-instrument Approach Zone is 

established at each end of all non-instrument runways on Bush Field 

Airport for non-instrument landings and takeoffs. The Non-instrument 

Approach Zone shall have a width of five hundred (500) feet at a distance 

of two hundred (200) feet beyond each end of the runway, widening  



 

28 - 3 

thereafter uniformly to a width of fifteen hundred (1,500) feet at a 

horizontal distance of five thousand (5,000) feet beyond each end of the 

runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the 

runway. 

(3) Transition Zones- Transition Zones are hereby established adjacent to 

each instrument and non-instrument runway and approach zone as 

indicated on the Zoning Map. Transition Zones, symmetrically located on 

either side of runways, have variable widths as shown on the Zoning Map. 

Transition Zones extend outward from a line two hundred fifty (250) feet 

on either side of the centerline of the non-instrument runway; for the 

length of such runway plus two hundred (200) feet on each end; and five 

hundred (500) feet on either side of the centerline of the instrument 

runway, for the length of such runway plus two hundred (200) feet on each 

end, and are parallel and level with such runway centerlines.  The 

Transition Zones along such runways slope upward and outward one (1) 

foot vertically for each seven (7) feet horizontally to the point where they 

intersect the surface of the Horizontal Zone.  Further, Transition Zones are 

established adjacent to both Instrument and Non- instrument Approach 

Zones for the entire length of the Approach Zones. These Transition Zones 

have variable widths, as shown on the Zoning Map. Such Transition Zones 

flare symmetrically with either side of the Runway Approach Zones from 

the base of such zones and slope upward and outward at the rate of one (1) 

foot vertically for each seven (7) feet horizontally to the points where they 

intersect the surfaces of the Horizontal and Conical Zones. Additionally, 

Transition Zones are established adjacent to the Instrument Approach 

Zone where it projects through and beyond the limits of the Conical Zone, 

extending a distance of five thousand (5,000) feet  measured horizontally 

from the edge of the Instrument Approach Zones at right angles to the 

continuation of the centerline of the runway. 

(4) Horizontal Zone - A Horizontal Zone is hereby established by swinging 

arcs of ten thousand (10,000) feet radii from the center of each end of the 

primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by 

drawing lines tangent to those arcs. The Horizontal Zone does not include 

the Instrument and Non-instrument Approach and Transitional Zones. 

(5) Conical Zone - A Conical Zone is hereby established commencing at the 

periphery of the Horizontal Zone and extending outward and upward from 

the periphery of the Horizontal Zone surface at a slope of twenty to one 

(20:1) for a Horizontal Zone distance of four thousand (4,000) feet.  The 

Conical Zone does not include the Instrument and Non- instrument 

Approach and Transition Zones. 

(c) Height Limitations: Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, no structure 

or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in any zone 

created by this Ordinance to a height in excess of the height limit herein 

established for such zone. Such height limitations are computed from the 

established airport elevation and are hereby established for: 

(1) Instrument Approach Zone- One (1) foot in height for each fifty (50) feet 

in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred (200) feet from 

and at the elevation of the end of the instrument runway and extending to a 

horizontal distance of ten thousand (10,000) feet; thence, one (1) foot for 



 

28 - 4 

each  forty  (40)  feet for an additional horizontal distance of forty 

thousand (40,000) feet beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being 

the continuation of the centerline of the runway.  

(2) Non-instrument Approach Zones- One (1) foot in height for each twenty 

(20) feet in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred (200) feet 

from and at the elevation of the end of the non-instrument runway and 

extending to a point five thousand (5,000) feet beyond each end of the 

runway, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the 

runway. 

(3) Transition Zones- One (1) foot in height for each seven (7) feet in 

horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred fifty (250) feet 

normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of non-instrument runways 

extending two hundred (200) feet beyond each end thereof, and five  

hundred (500) feet normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of the 

instrument runway extending two hundred (200) feet beyond each end 

thereof, extending to a height of one hundred fifty (150) feet above the 

airport elevation which is 145.14 feet above mean sea level. In addition to 

the foregoing, there are established height limits of one (1) foot vertical 

for each seven (7) feet horizontal distance measured from the edges of all 

approach zones for the entire length of the approach zones and extending 

upward and outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal or 

conical surfaces.  Further, where the Instrument Approach Zone projects 

through and beyond the Conical Zone, a height limit of one foot for each 

seven (7) feet of horizontal distance shall be maintained beginning at the 

edge of the Instrument Approach Zone and extending a distance of five 

thousand (5,000) feet from the edge of the Instrument Approach Zone 

measured normal to the centerline of the runway extended. 

(4) Horizontal Zone- One hundred and fifty (150) feet above the airport 

elevation or a height of 295.14 feet above mean sea level except where the 

existing elevation is greater than 245.14 feet above mean sea level, in 

which case the horizontal zone shall equal the existing ground elevation 

plus fifty (50) feet. 

(5) Conical Zone- One (1) foot in height for each twenty (20) feet of 

horizontal distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone, 

extending to a height of 495.14 feet above the airport elevation. Where an 

area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more restrictive 

limitation shall prevail. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed as 

prohibiting the growth, construction, or maintenance of any tree or 

structure to a height up to twenty (20) feet above the surface of the land.  

(d) Use Restrictions: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, no use 

may be made of land within any zone established by this Ordinance in such a 

manner as to create electrical interference with radio communication between the 

airport and aircraft, make it difficult for fliers to distinguish between airport lights 

and others, result in glare in the eyes of fliers using the airport, impair visibility or 

otherwise endanger the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft.  

 (e) Nonconforming Uses:  

(1) Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this Ordinance 

shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes 

or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as 



 

28 - 5 

of the effective date of this Ordinance or otherwise interfere with the 

continuation of any nonconforming use. 

(2) Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this 

Section, the owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is hereby 

required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of 

such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Federal 

Aviation Administration to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the 

vicinity of the airport, the presence of such airport hazards.  Such markers 

and lights shall be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the 

Augusta, Georgia Commission. 

 (f) Permits: 

(1) Future uses- except as specifically provided in the paragraph whereunder, 

no material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or 

tree shall be erected, altered, planted, or otherwise established in any zone 

hereby created unless a permit therefore shall have been applied for and 

granted.  Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which 

the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be 

determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to 

the regulations herein prescribed.  If such determination is in the 

affirmative, the permit shall be granted. In the area lying within the limits 

of the Horizontal Zone and Conical Zone, no permit shall be required for 

any tree or structure less than seventy-five (75) feet of vertical height 

above the ground, except when, because terrain, land contour, or 

topographic features such tree or structure would extend above the height 

limits prescribed for such zone. 

 

In the areas lying within the limits of the instrument and non-instrument 

approach zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than four thousand 

two hundred (4,200) feet from each end of the runways, no permit shall be 

required for any tree or structure less than seventy-five (75) feet of vertical 

height above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of 

terrain, land contour, or topographic features would extend above the 

height limit prescribed for such instrument or non-instrument approach 

zone. 

 

In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond the 

perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree 

or structure less than seventy-five (75) feet of vertical height above the 

ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land 

contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit 

prescribed for such transition zones. Nothing contained in any of the 

foregoing exceptions shall be construed as permitting or intending to 

permit any construction, alteration, or growth of any structure or tree in 

excess of any of the height limits established by this Ordinance. 

(2) Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the 

establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming 

use, structure, or tree to be made higher or become a greater hazard to air 

navigation than it was on the effective date of this Ordinance or any 



 

28 - 6 

amendments thereto or than it is when the applications for such a permit 

shall be granted. 

(3) Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed.  When ever the Chief 

Building Official determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has 

been abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically 

deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such 

structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate 

from the zoning regulations. 

(4) Hazard marking and lights.  Any permit or variance granted may, if such 

action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this Ordinance and 

be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the 

owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the Augusta 

Commission, to install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and 

lights as may be necessary to indicate to fliers the presence of an airport 

hazard. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended February 5, 2013 – Section 1(f) 



 

28 - A - 1 

SECTION 28-A 
 

TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES 
 

28-A-1 PURPOSE. This section is designed and intended to balance the interests of the  

 residents of Augusta-Richmond County, telecommunications providers and  

 telecommunications customers in the siting of telecommunications facilities 

 within Augusta, Georgia so as to protect the health, safety and integrity of residential 

 neighborhoods and foster through appropriate zoning and land use controls, a 

 competitive environment for telecommunications carriers that does not unreasonably 

 discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless services and  

 shall not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless 

 services, and so as to promote Augusta, Georgia  as a proactive city in the availability of 

 personal wireless telecommunications service. To that end, this section shall: 

A. Provide for  the appropriate local land use and development of 

telecommunications facilities in Augusta-Richmond County; 

B. Protect Augusta, Georgia’s built and natural environment by promoting 

compatible design standards for telecommunications facilities; 

C. Minimize adverse visual impacts of telecommunications facilities through careful 

design, siting, landscape screening and innovative camouflaging techniques; 

D. Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower or antenna failure 

through engineering and careful siting of telecommunications tower structures 

and antenna; 

E. Maximize use of any new and existing telecommunications towers so as to 

minimize the need to construct new towers and minimize the total number of 

towers throughout Augusta, Georgia; 

F. Maximize and encourage use of alternative telecommunication tower structures 

rather than construction of additional single-use towers; and  

G. Encourage and promote the location of new telecommunications facilities in areas 

which are not zoned for residential use. 

 

28-A-2 DEFINITIONS.  As used in this ordinance, the following terms shall have the 

meanings indicated: 

A. "Antenna" means any exterior apparatus designed for the sending and/or receiving 

of electromagnetic waves for telephonic, radio, television, or personal wireless 

services.  For the purposes of this ordinance the term "antenna" does not include 

any tower and antenna under seventy (70) feet in total height which is owned and 

operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal Communications 

Commission, and any device designed for over-the-air reception of radio or 

television broadcast signals.   

B. “Director”  means the Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department 

 C. "Governing body" means the Augusta Commission; 

D. "Monopole tower" means a telecommunications tower consisting of a single pole 

constructed without guy wires or ground anchors; 

E. “Panel Antenna”  means a flat surfaced antenna used for transmitting and 

receiving radio signals. 

F. “Permitted Use”   means the use of land that is allowed “by right” requiring no 

further zoning action or special exception to permit its development. 



 

28 - A - 2 

G. “Stealth Facility”  means a telecommunications facility that is not readily 

identifiable as a telecommunications facility, is visually unobtrusive, and has an 

innovative approach to construction. 

H. "Telecommunications facilities" refers to antenna and towers, either individually 

or together. 

I. "Tower" means a structure, such as a lattice tower, or monopole tower constructed 

as a freestanding structure or in association with a building, other permanent 

structure or equipment on which is located one or more antenna intended for 

transmitting or receiving analog, digital, microwave, cellular, telephone, personal 

wireless service or similar forms of electronic communication.  The term includes 

microwave towers, common carrier towers, and cellular telephone towers; 

J. "Whip antenna" means an antenna vertically oriented, for transmitting and 

receiving radio signals. 

 

28-A-3  EXEMPTIONS.  The following shall be exempt from this ordinance: 

A. Any tower and antenna under seventy (70) feet in total height which is owned and 

operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal Communications 

Commission; 

B. Any device designed for the over-the-air reception of radio or television broadcast 

signals; or 

C. Any telecommunications facilities located on property owned, leased or otherwise 

controlled by Augusta, Georgia provided a license or lease authorizing the 

telecommunications facility has been approved; 

   

28-A-4 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. The following shall govern the location and 

construction of all telecommunication facilities regulated by this ordinance: 

A. Building Codes and Safety Standards.  To ensure the structural integrity of 

telecommunications facilities, the owner of a telecommunications facility shall 

ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable 

local building codes and constructed to the EIA/TIA 222-E standards, as 

published by the Electric Industries Association, which may be amended from 

time to time. Owners of telecommunications facilities shall conduct periodic 

inspections of such facilities at least once every five years to ensure structural 

integrity. Inspections shall be conducted by a qualified independent engineer 

licensed to practice in Georgia. The results of such inspection shall be provided to 

the Director. 

 

 B. Regulatory Compliance. 
1. All telecommunications facilities must meet or exceed current standards 

and regulations of the FAA, the FCC and any other agency of the state or 

federal government with the authority to regulate telecommunications 

facilities. 

2. Owners of telecommunications facilities shall provide certification 

showing that each telecommunications facility is in compliance with all 

applicable federal and state requirements.  Certification of compliance 

must be submitted every 5 years. 

 

 

 



 

28 - A - 3 

 C. Visual Impact. 
1. Telecommunications facilities shall either maintain a galvanized steel 

finish, or subject to any applicable standards of the FAA or other 

applicable federal or state agency, be painted a neutral color or painted 

and/or textured to match the existing structure so as to reduce visual 

obtrusiveness. 

2. If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and 

associated electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral color 

or identical to, or closely compatible with the color of the supporting 

structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as visually 

unobtrusive as possible. Roof-mounted antennas shall be made visually 

unobtrusive by screening to match existing air conditioning units, stairs, 

elevator towers or other background. 

3. Where feasible, telecommunications facilities should be placed directly 

above, below or incorporated with vertical design elements of a building 

to help in camouflaging. 

4. Any equipment shelter or cabinet that supports telecommunications 

facilities must be concealed from public view or made compatible with the 

architecture of the surrounding structures or placed underground. 

Equipment shelters or cabinets shall be screened from public view by 

using landscaping or materials and colors consistent with the surrounding 

backdrop. The shelter or cabinet must be regularly maintained. 

5. Site location and development shall preserve the primary character of the 

surrounding buildings and land uses and the zone district as much as 

possible. Towers shall be integrated through location and design to blend 

in with existing characteristics of the site to the extent practical. 

6. Except for stealth facilities, towers shall not be sited where they would, in 

the opinion of the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission, negatively 

affect (a)  historic structures or landmarks that are recognized or 

designated in national or state historic registers, or (b) structures or 

landmarks that are at least fifty (50) years old and, in the opinion of the 

Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission have some demonstrable historic 

value.  

7. At a tower site the design of the buildings and related structures shall to 

the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and 

landscaping that will blend the tower and related facilities to the natural 

setting and built environment. 

 

 D. Landscaping. 

1. Landscaping shall be used to effectively screen the view of the 

telecommunication facility from adjacent public ways, public property and 

residential property. 

2. Native vegetation on the site shall be preserved to the greatest practical 

extent. The applicant shall provide a site plan showing existing significant 

vegetation to be removed, and vegetation to be replanted to replace that 

lost. 

3. The landscaping requirement, where lesser requirements are desirable for 

adequate visibility for security purposes, for continued operation of 

existing bona fide agricultural or forest uses such as farms, nurseries and 



 

28 - A - 4 

tree farms or where an antenna is placed on an existing structure may be 

modified or waived upon approval of the Augusta, Georgia Planning 

Commission. In certain locations where the visual impact of the tower 

would be minimal, such as remote agricultural or rural locations or 

developed heavy industrial areas, the landscaping requirement may be 

modified or waived upon approval by the Augusta, Georgia County 

Planning Commission. 

4. Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved or improved, and 

disturbance of the existing topography shall be minimized, unless such 

disturbance would result in less visual impact of the site to the surrounding 

area.  

5. The landscaping provisions of this section shall not apply to 

telecommunication facilities located in LI (Light Industry) and HI (Heavy 

Industry) zones, unless the site is in view of a residential use in a 

residential zone, as viewed from the base of the tower. This does not 

exempt such development from the provisions of the Augusta Tree 

Ordinance.  

 E. Setbacks. 

The following setback requirements shall apply to all telecommunications 

facilities, provided however, that the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission 

may reduce the standard setback requirements of this section if the goals of this 

ordinance would be better served thereby: 

 

1. Telecommunications towers must be set back a distance equal to the 

height of the tower from any existing off-site residential structure. 

2. Telecommunications towers must be set back a distance equal to one half 

of the height of the tower from any property line which borders a single family 

residentially zoned lot that is either located in a developed or developing 

subdivision or a tract for which a legal subdivision development plan is on file. 

3. Towers, guy wires and accessory facilities must satisfy the zoning district 

setback requirements as identified in Sections 7-28 of this Ordinance.  

4. The tower setbacks referenced in Subsections 1 and 2 of this Section [28-

A-4(E)] shall be measured from the base of the tower itself. 

 

F. Miscellaneous. 
1. Lighting: No illumination is permitted on telecommunications facilities 

unless required by the FCC, FAA, or other state or federal agency of competent 

jurisdiction or unless necessary for air traffic safety. When lighting is required, it 

shall be oriented inward to the extent possible so as not to project onto 

surrounding residential property. 

2. Advertising. No advertising is permitted on telecommunications facilities. 

However, whip antennas or panel antennas may be allowed on any legally 

permitted permanent billboard or outdoor advertising sign as long as the other 

requirements of this ordinance are met. 

3. Telecommunication facilities may be located on sites containing other 

principal uses in the same buildable area. 

4. Security. Towers shall be enclosed by decay-resistance security fencing 

not less than six (6) feet in height and shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-

climbing device or other similar protective device designed to prevent tower 



 

28 - A - 5 

access.  If the owner can demonstrate the ability to restrict unauthorized access to 

the tower, then this latter provision may be waived by the Director.  

 

28-A-5 DISTRICT REGULATIONS. 
 

A. Agriculture (A) Zone.    

1. Telecommunication towers may be located in an A zone upon the granting 

of a special exception.  

2. Factors to be considered in granting a special exception are identified in 

28-A-6.  

B. Single-family Residential Zone (R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D, and R-1E): 

 1. Telecommunication facilities not exempted under 28-A(3) may not be 

located in the R-1 zone as permitted uses; 

 2. Monopole and antenna  telecommunication facilities may be located in a 

single family residential zone upon the granting of a special exception. 

 3.  In order to qualify for consideration by Special Exception in the R-1 zone, 

telecommunication facilities must be located on existing nonresidential 

structures, or designed as stealth facilities.  

    4. Factors to be considered in granting a Special Exception are identified in 

28-A-6. 

 C. Two-family Residential (R-2), Multiple-Family Residential (R-3A, R-3B, and R-

3C), Manufactured Home Residential (R-MH), and Professional (P-1) Zones. 

1. Telecommunication facilities or antenna, and stealth facilities shall be 

permitted uses in the R-2, R-3A, R-3B, R-3C, R-MH, and P-1 zones, if 

they are located on existing nonresidential structures, and as long as they 

do not exceed the height allowable in the zone. Whip antennas  or panel 

antennas may extend twenty (20) feet above the height limit. 

2. Otherwise, telecommunications towers may be located in the R-2, R-3A, 

R-3B, R-3C, R-MH, and P-1 zones upon the granting of a special 

exception. 

3. Factors to be considered in granting a Special Exception are identified in 

28-A-6. 

D. Neighborhood Business Zone (B-1). 

1. Monopole telecommunication facilities and antenna may be located in the 

B-1 zone as permitted uses so long as they do not exceed the height limit 

for the zone, except that whip antennas or panel antennas can extend  

twenty (20) feet above the height limit. 

2. Other telecommunication facilities may be located in the B-1 zone upon 

the granting of a Special Exception. 

3. Factors to be considered in granting a Special Exception are identified in 

28-A-6. 

   E. General Business Zone (B-2) 

1. A telecommunication facility may be located in the B-2 zone as a 

permitted use under the following conditions: 

(a) does not exceed the height limit of the zone, and within ½ mile of a 

proposed tower location there are no existing structures the top of 

which appear to be 90% or more of the height (elevation AMSL) 

of the proposed tower;  or 



 

28 - A - 6 

(b) It exceeds the height limit for the zone, but not by more than thirty 

(30) feet, and the tower will be built to accommodate two other 

wireless carriers (at least 3) and within ½ mile of a proposed tower 

location there are no other existing structures the top of which 

appear to be 90% or more of the height (elevation AMSL) of the 

proposed tower; or  

(c)  It does not exceed the height limit for the zone and the applicant 

can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the staff of the Augusta 

Planning and Development Department that coverage / capacity 

capability and system design would be compromised if the 

applicant were required to co-locate. 

2. In all other cases, telecommunication facilities may be permitted in the B-

2 zone by special exception. 

3. Factors to be considered in granting a special exception are identified in 

28-A6. 

4. Whip antennas or panel antennas may extend twenty (20) feet above the 

height limit for the zone or any other permitted height as indicated above. 

F. Industrial Zones (LI and HI). Telecommunication facilities may be located in the 

LI and HI zones under the following conditions: 

1. As permitted uses in the LI zone if the height is not to exceed 200 feet; 

and 

 2. As permitted uses in the HI zone if the height is not to exceed 350 feet. 

3. In all other cases, telecommunication facilities may be permitted in the LI 

and HI zones by special exception. 

4. Factors to be considered in granting a special exception are identified in 

28-A6. 

 

28-A-6  SPECIAL EXCEPTION.   
Criteria to be used to evaluate applications that require special exceptions shall include the 

          following: 

1. height of proposed structure 

2. distances to residences 

3. nature of surrounding land use 

4. surrounding topography 

5. surrounding tree coverage 

6. design of structure - characteristics that reduce obtrusiveness 

7. design of structure - ability to accommodate additional antenna 

8. ingress and egress 

9. availability of towers or other tall structures within one-half mile of the 

proposed site. If within ½ mile of a proposed tower location there are 

existing structures the top of which appear to be 90% or more of the height 

(elevation AMSL) of the proposed tower site, then evidence must be 

provided with the application that existing structures are not of sufficient 

strength, or applicant use of structure would cause conflict with the 

existing use of structure, or that the cost of sharing would be unreasonable, 

or that the structure is not available for co-location, or coverage / capacity 

capability and system design would be compromised.   (SEE 28-A-7); 



 

28 - A - 7 

10. Proximity to property owned by Augusta, Georgia that could be utilized 

for construction at the same or less cost to the carrier while accomplishing 

the same coverage goals of the carrier. 

 

28-A-7  APPLICATION PROCEDURE. Applications for the construction of  

 

telecommunications facilities, except for whip antennas and panel antennas where they are 

permitted uses, shall be made to the staff of the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission.  A 

cursory review during an initial conference regarding a proposed facility may be held, but  

applications will not be accepted unless they contain the following information: 

A. Site plan or plans to scale specifying the location of telecommunications facilities, 

transmission building and/or other accessory uses, access, fences, landscaped area 

and adjacent land uses. 

B. Landscape plan to scale indicating size, spacing and type of plantings required in 

Section 28-A-2d. 

C. A general description of the environment surrounding the proposed 

telecommunications facility accompanied by a map covering an area at least one-

half mile in radius, to scale no greater than one inch to 1200 feet, showing any 

adjacent residential structures and districts, structures and sites of historic 

significance, streetscapes or scenic view corridors. 

D. For those proposed tower locations requiring a special exception or for those 

facilities for which the elevation of the top of other structures could result in the 

need for a special exception,  identification of the geographic service area for the 

subject installation, including a map covering an area at least one-half mile in 

radius and at a scale no greater than one inch to 1200 feet showing the site and the 

nearest or associated telecommunications facility sites within the network of the 

applicant. Describe the distance between the telecommunications facility sites of 

the applicant. Describe how this service area fits into and is necessary for the 

service network of the applicant. 

E. For those proposed tower locations requiring a special exception or for those 

facilities for which the elevation of the top of other structures could result in the 

need for a special exception,  a map covering an area of at least one-half mile in 

radius, to scale no greater than one inch to 1200 feet, showing all publicly owned 

property and buildings per information provided by Augusta, Georgia, 

telecommunication facilities, and structures that are 90% or more of the proposed 

facility height (AMSL). Provide a list of all such properties and structures 

including street addresses, and a statement describing good faith efforts and 

measures that were taken to secure these locations, addressing why such 

properties and structures were not structurally, legally, technically, or 

economically feasible and why such efforts were unsuccessful. 

F. For those proposed tower locations requiring a special exception or for those 

facilities for which the elevation of the top of other structures could result in the 

need for a special exception,  the applicant shall quantify the additional tower 

capacity to be constructed if the proposal is granted, including the approximate 

number and types of antenna that it could accommodate. The applicant shall 

provide a drawing of each tower showing existing and proposed antenna 

locations. The applicant shall also describe any limitations on the ability of the 

tower to accommodate other uses, e.g., radio frequency interference, mass height, 

frequency or other characteristics.  The applicant shall provide certification that 



 

28 - A - 8 

notice of the application has been given to all other telecommunication tower 

users in the area by certified mail identifying the proposed location and asking for 

their input regarding co-location possibilities. 

G. Report from the applicant documenting the following: 

1. Telecommunications facility height and design, including technical, 

engineering, economic, and other pertinent factors governing selection of 

the proposed design; 

2. Total anticipated capacity of the telecommunications facility, including 

number and types of antenna which can be accommodated; 

3. Evidence of structural integrity of the tower structure; and  

4. Structural failure characteristics of the telecommunications facility and 

demonstration that site and setbacks are of adequate size to contain debris. 

H. The identity of a community liaison officer appointed by the applicant to resolve 

issues of concern to neighbors and residences relating to the construction and 

operation of the facility. Include name, address, telephone number, facsimile 

number and electronic mail address, if applicable.  

I. For those proposed tower locations requiring a special exception or for those 

facilities for which the elevation of the top of other structures could result in the 

need for a special exception, a schedule for construction of the proposed facility if 

zoning authorization is granted. Upon approval of a special exception, 

construction must begin within one year or the special exception shall be null and 

void. An applicant who is licensed by the FCC may submit a revised schedule to 

the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission within the one year period asking for 

an extension, which the Augusta, Georgia Planning Commission shall have the 

authority to consider as a variance. In no case shall an applicant who is not 

licensed by the FCC be eligible for a variance from the one year provision. 

J.  A full inventory of existing towers and which carriers are located on each, that are  

  controlled by the applicant It's affiliates, subsidiaries, and or assigns. This can be  

  provided digitally 

 

28-A-8  ABANDONED TOWERS. 
A. Any telecommunications facility that is not operated for a continuous period of 

two (2) years or more shall be considered abandoned, whether or not the owner or 

operator intends to make use of it or any part of it. The owner of a 

telecommunications facility and the owner of the property where the facility is 

located shall remove the abandoned telecommunications facility. If such antenna 

and/or tower is not removed within sixty (60) days of receipt of a notice from 

Augusta, Georgia, notifying the owner(s) of such abandonment, Augusta, Georgia 

may remove such tower and/or antenna and place a lien upon the property to 

insure that abandoned telecommunications facilities are removed. Delay by 

Augusta, Georgia in taking action shall not in any way waive Augusta, Georgia’s 

right to take action. Augusta, Georgia may seek to have the telecommunications 

facility removed regardless of the owner's or operator's intent to operate the tower 

or antenna and regardless of any permits, federal, state or otherwise, which may 

have been granted. 

B. If the owner of a tower or antenna, which has been abandoned for a period of two 

years or more, wishes to use such abandoned tower or antenna, the owner first 

must apply for and receive all applicable permits and meet all of the conditions of 

this ordinance as if such tower or antenna were a new tower or antenna. 



 

28 - A - 9 

 

28-A-9  PRE-EXISTING TOWER / NONCONFORMING USES. 
A. All telecommunications facilities operative on the  effective date shall be allowed 

to continue their present usage as a nonconforming use and shall be treated as a 

nonconforming use in accordance with Section 5 of the Comprehensive Zoning 

Ordinance. Routine maintenance, including replacement with a new tower or 

antenna of like construction and height, shall be permitted on such existing 

telecommunications facilities.  New construction other than routine maintenance 

shall comply with the requirements of this ordinance. 

B. Proposed communication antennae may, and are encouraged to, collocate onto 

existing communication towers. Collocations are permitted by right and new or 

additional special exception approval shall not be required. 

C. An existing communication tower may be modified or rebuilt to a height not to 

exceed thirty (30) feet more than the existing tower’s height, to accommodate the 

location of additional communication antennae. An increase in height per this 

provision shall only be permitted one time at a given  tower location. The 

following provisions shall also apply: 

1. The type of construction shall be the same tower type as the existing 

communication tower or of monopole design. 

2. The additional height shall not require an additional distance separation as 

set forth in either subsections 28-A-4E (1), (2), or (3). 

3. A communication tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the 

collocation of additional communication antennae may be moved on-site 

within one hundred (100) feet of its existing location so long as it is not 

moved closer to any residential structures than the existing location had 

been. 

4. After the communication tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation, 

only one tower may remain on the site. 

5. A relocated on-site communication tower shall continue to be measured 

from the original tower location. The relocation  of a tower hereunder 

shall in no way be deemed to cause violation of subsections 28-A4E (1), 

(2), or (3). 

6. The on-site relocation of a communication tower that is greater than one 

hundred (100) feet and which comes within  the set  back distances to 

residential units, as established in Section 28-A-4E of this ordinance, shall 

be permitted only  when notarized written consent is obtained from 

adjoining  residential property owners.  Nonconforming residential  

structures of three (3) or less do not apply. 

 D. Placement of an antenna on a nonconforming structure shall not be considered an 

expansion of the nonconforming structure. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended June 2013 – added 28-A-7-J



 

28 - B - 0 



 

28 – B- 1  

SECTION 28-B 

 

SIGNS 

 

28-B-1  PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.  The purpose of this Section is to provide fair and 

comprehensive regulations that will promote safety by eliminating confusing, distracting and 

unsafe signs; assure the opportunity for businesses to advertise in an efficient and cost-

effective manner; and enhance the physical appearance, natural beauty and historical 

significance of Augusta.  It is declared that the regulation of signs within Augusta is necessary 

and in the public interest: 

 

A. PURPOSE – This article is enacted for the following purposes: 

 

1. To promote traffic safety and protect the general public from damage and 

injury caused, or partially attributable to, the distractions or obstructions impairing 

motorists' ability to see pedestrians, other vehicles, obstacles or traffic signs which are 

caused by improperly designed or situated signs; 

2. To protect property values within Augusta; 

3. To promote and aid in the tourist industry which is declared to be of 

importance to the economy of Augusta; 

4. To provide a pleasing overall environmental setting and community 

appearance which is deemed vital to tourism and to the continued economic 

attractiveness of Augusta; 

5. To protect the right of citizens to enjoy Augusta's natural scenic beauty; 

6. To improve the legibility and effectiveness of commercial and governmental 

signs; and 

7. To preserve and promote the public health, safety and welfare in the City. 

8. To enhance the aesthetics of the community. 

 

B. FINDINGS: 

 

1. The City finds that signs are a proper use of private property, are a means of 

personal free expression and a necessary component of a commercial environment.  As 

such, signs are entitled to the protection of the law.  In the absence of regulation, 

however, the number of such signs tends to proliferate, with property owner’s desiring 

ever increasing numbers and sizes of signs, leading to cluttered blighted thoroughfares, 

in addition, the competition among competing sign owners for visibility of their signs 

contribute to safety hazards for both vehicles and pedestrians and undermines the sign 

owner’s original purpose of presenting a clear message of its idea or identification of 

its premises. 

2. The City further finds that the regulation of the size, height, number and 

spacing of signs is necessary to protect the public safety, to assure compatibility of 

signs with surrounding land uses, to enhance the business and economy of the City to 

protect, to protect the public investment in the streets and highways, to maintain the 

tranquil environment of residential areas, to promote industry and commerce, to 

eliminate visual clutter and blight, to provide and aesthetically appealing environment 

and to provide for the orderly and reasonable display of signs for the benefit of all the 

City’s citizens. 



 

28 – B- 2  

3. The City further finds that there is a substantial difference between signs 

erected by public authority and signs erected by private citizens or businesses.  Signs 

erected by pubic authority are virtually all erected for the purpose of maintaining the 

public safety either through direct control of traffic or through provision of such type 

signage as street signs which enable the traveling public to know where they are 

located and to find where they are going. As such, with the exception of signs 

identifying government buildings, virtually all government signs are erected purely for 

public safety purposes.  Moreover, their use in public right-of-way is necessary to 

ensure their visibility to the motoring public.  The City finds that public utility signs 

are frequently of the same nature as those signs erected by government entities in that 

they provide necessary information to safeguard the public from downed power lines 

and from street excavations.  Even where signs serve a propriety purpose, such as 

identifying markings on utility poles, those signs are marked primarily for the purpose 

of benefiting the public generally through identification of locations where there may 

be temporary losses of power. 

4. The City further finds that some signage has a single targeted function and that 

identification of such signage by description is impossible without referring to its 

function. For instance, address numerals are used for the sole purpose of locating 

addresses, which is of benefit to persons looking for those addresses and is essential to  

public safety personnel responding to emergencies.  Subdivision signs at the entrances 

to subdivisions favor a similar purpose in enabling both the traveling public and 

emergency personnel to quickly locate subdivision entrances for the purpose of either 

visitation or responding to emergency calls.  While such signage is often referenced 

based upon the function it serves within the context of this ordinance, whenever, 

possible it is the intent of this ordinance to refer to signs unrelated to the content of 

speech provided and to allow maximum expressive potential to sign owners. 

 

 

28-B-2  DEFINITIONS.  For the purpose of this Section the following definitions will be 

used: 

Banner.  A sign or outside advertising display bearing the characters, letters, illustrations, 

ornamentations, symbols, colors, or visual representations applied to cloth, paper, vinyl, 

fiber, plastic, or like malleable material with or without frame.  The term "banner" shall 

include flags, pennants, life rafts, t-shirts, towels, ribbons, spinners, streamers, kites, 

balloons, tethered hot air balloons, inflatable devices, and similar objects, or any other 

material or outside advertising display whether stationary or fastened in such a manner as 

to move upon being subjected to movement of the atmosphere or any mechanical device.  

A banner may or may not have lettering or other specific identification or advertising 

information or graphics. 

Billboard – A sign, single face, double face, or v-type, contains over two hundred ninety-

nine (299) square feet in area. 

 Commercial - DELETE 

Flag, Official.  A flag of the United State of America, or a flag of the State of Georgia or 

other governmental entity, or a flag officially adopted by the person, institution, 

organization, or corporation occupying a property. 

Non Commercial DELETE 

 



 

28 – B- 3  

Reader Board or Message Board.  A sign or portion of a sign on which the message or 

copy changes automatically on a lamp bank or through mechanical means.  Also known 

as a Commercial Electronic Variable Message Sign. 

Sign – A sign, single face, double face, or v-type, which directs attention to one or more 

businesses, commodities, services, or entertainments. 

Sign, Abandoned.  A sign which was properly permitted and erected on property in 

conjunction with a particular use which use has been discontinued for a period of 30 days 

or more; or a permitted temporary sign for which the permit has expired. 

 Sign, Addressing – A fixed freestanding or wall mounted sign that purposely seeks to 

 identify the unique combination of numbers or letters given to a primary structure or unit 

 on a parcel.   

Sign, Awning.  A sign located on an awning, which is a roof-like cover providing 

protection from the weather placed over or extending from or above any window, door or 

other entrance to a building. 

Sign, Building Mounted.  A sign painted onto or attached to a building, canopy, awning, 

marquee or mechanical equipment located outside a building. 

Sign, Canopy.  A sign located on a canopy, which is a permanent roof-like structure 

providing protection against the weather whether attached to or detached from a building. 

Sign Enforcement Officer.  An employee of the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department who is responsible for enforcement of the provisions of this Section and is 

empowered to issue citations, remove certain illegal signs, and take other actions 

consistent with this Section. 

Sign, Flashing – Any sign which has intermittent or changing lighting or illumination of a 

duration less than thirty (30) seconds shall be deemed a flashing sign. 

Sign, Freestanding.  A sign supported by a structure secured in the ground and which is 

wholly independent of any building, fence, vehicle, or other support. 

Sign, Illuminated – A sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light source, 

whether internally or externally lit, including but limited to neon signs and any sign which 

has characters, letters, figures, designs or outlines illuminated by artificial lighting. 

      Sign, Mansard.  A sign attached to the mansard section of a roof, which is the lower, 

      mostly vertical portion of a roof with two pitches, including a flat topped roof with a  

      mansard  portion. 

Sign, Marquee.  A sign attached to a marquee, which is a permanent roof-like structure 

projecting from and beyond a building wall at an entrance to a building or extending along 

and projecting beyond the building's wall and generally designed and constructed to 

provide protection against the weather. 

Sign, Monument.  A freestanding sign which is mounted on or supported by a structure 

which is not a simple pole, pylon, or beam system. 

Sign, Non Conforming.  A sign which was in existence and was constructed in 

compliance with the terms of any prior Ordinance but does not conform to the provisions 

of this Section. 

 Sign, Off-Premises.  DELETE 

 Sign, On-Premises.  DELETE 

Sign, Pole (or Pylon) Mounted.  A freestanding sign which is mounted on or supported 

by a simple pole, pylon, or beam system. 

Sign, Political.  A sign erected for the purpose of advertising a candidate or stating a 

position regarding an issue upon which the voters of the city shall vote. 

Sign, Portable.  A sign which is designed to be transportable (with wheels; designed to be 

transported by trailer or wheels; mounted on a vehicle for advertising purposes, parked 



 

28 – B- 4  

and visible from the public right-of-way – except for normal business vehicles) and 

utilized at different locations and is not permanently affixed to the ground or to a building.   

Sign, Projecting.  A sign attached to a building, canopy, awning or marquee and 

projecting outward therefrom in any direction a distance of two feet or more. 

Sign Surface Area.  A measurement of the portion of a sign consisting of the actual copy, 

advertisement, or area devoted to identification or proclamation within the periphery of 

the smallest circle, triangle, rectangle, a combination of the foregoing.  The sign surface 

area shall include any background material, trim, color, or other visual representations 

which attracts attention or are used to differentiate a sign from a building, structure, 

backdrop surface, or object upon which the sign is placed.  Sign surface area shall not 

include the sign structures if no message, symbol, or any of the aforementioned sign face 

criteria are displayed on or designed as part of the sign structure. Sign surface area is the 

combined surface area of all signs on a lot; excluding the area of one face of all double-

faced signs. Double-faced sign means a sign which has two display areas where one face 

is designed to be seen from one direction and the other face from another direction. 

Sign, Temporary.  A sign or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, 

paper, plywood, sheet metal, or another light material which is designed to be used only 

temporarily, and which is not permanently mounted.  Included in this category are 

banners, portable signs, retailers signs temporarily displayed such as special sale signs, 

special event signs, special product or service promotional signs, and similar signs. 

Sign, Traffic Directional A sign  consisting of a simple message such as "in", "out", 

"parking" or something similar and an arrow, logo, but nothing more erected solely for the 

purpose of vehicular or pedestrian traffic direction or safety.  Such sign shall have no 

advertising words or phrases. 

Sign, Window.  Any sign or display which is painted on or applied to or projected upon or 

within the interior or exterior of a building glass area, including doors, which can be read 

from contiguous property or public right-of-way. 

 

28-B-3  ADMINISTRATION.  Administration of this Section shall be the responsibility of 

the Augusta Planning and Development Department.  Administration shall consist of (A) 

application and sign plan, and (B) sign permit:   

 

A. Application and Sign Plan. A sign permit may be issued upon the submission 

of an application and an approved sign plan, and payment of a fee.  The application 

shall be on a form provided by Augusta, Georgia disclosing the sign owner, property 

owner, property occupant, address of the premises where the sign is to be located, 

together with the size of the proposed sign and a description of any other signs located 

on the premises, other signs for which a permit has been issued and remain 

outstanding, and for proposed signs yet to be permitted.  In addition, other information 

shall be provided as indicated on the form, and other information needed pursuant to 

Sections 28-B-6 through 28-B-12 shall be provided. 

 

Every permit application shall be accompanied by a sign plan.  A sign plan shall show 

the location of all existing, permitted but not erected, and proposed signs, all buildings, 

parking facilities, driveways, curbs and right-of-way lines immediately adjacent to the 

property. Also, single-family residential structures on adjoining properties shall be 

shown.  The location of the sign(s) for which the permit applies shall be shown.  In 

addition, the sign plan shall include drawings of all proposed signs showing 

dimensions, elevations, height, setbacks, materials and illumination sources, types, and 



 

28 – B- 5  

intensity.  Sign plans shall be scaled drawings with accurate dimensions provided, 

where appropriate, to show conformance to this Section.  Sign plans need not be 

prepared by licensed professionals, unless required elsewhere in this Section, but a 

certification of their accuracy shall be placed upon the plan. 

 

Sign plans shall be approved, approved with conditions, or denied by the Augusta 

Planning and Development Department.  Action on a sign plan shall be taken within 

five working days of submission or it shall be deemed to have been approved.  An 

approved sign plan, an application, and payment of a fee shall be required to obtain a 

sign permit. 

 
B. Sign Permit.  Except as specified in Subsection 28-B-4 of this Section, a sign 

permit must be obtained from the Augusta Planning and Development Department 

prior to the erection, installation or material alteration of any sign.  As used in the 

preceding sentence, material alteration shall mean any change in, a) the height of a 

sign, b) the surface area of a sign, c) the location of a sign, d) the supporting structure 

of a sign, and e) the illumination of a non-illuminated sign; such terms shall not 

include routine maintenance and repair or routine electrical work only.  Permits may 

be obtained from the Augusta Planning and Development Department.  Signs to be 

located in locally designated historic districts (Title 7, Chapter 4 of the Augusta, 

Georgia Code), shall be approved by the Historic Preservation Commission. 

 

A sign permit shall be accompanied by a decal which shall be affixed to the sign 

structure before it is erected.  A Permit for a temporary sign shall be accompanied by a 

decal color coded to the calendar quarter in which the permit is valid.  A decal for a 

permanent sign shall be valid and remain affixed to the sign throughout the life of the 

sign.  A sign permit issued upon the basis of false or misleading information which is 

material to the application and granting of a permit, shall be immediately revoked and 

such sign shall be removed within 30 days. 

 

28-B-4  EXEMPTIONS. The following are not considered to be signs for the purpose of 

administering and enforcing this Ordinance, and permits shall not be required. 

 

A. Official Flags.  Except during celebration of officially recognized holidays, 

only one of each of the three categories of Official flags may be displayed on a lot.  

Official flags shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in area, nor be located on 

flagpoles more than forty (40) feet in height or that exceed the height limitation of the 

zoning district.  Official flags shall be flown in accordance with protocol established 

by the Congress of the United States for the Stars and Stripes, as applicable.  Any flag 

not meeting any one or more of these conditions will be considered a sign and will be 

subject to regulation as such. 

B. DELETE 

C. Government signs erected pursuant to and in the discharge of any government 

function. 

D. Signs or plates on residential structures bearing the name and address of the 

occupant; mailboxes, paperboxes, and similar uses customarily associated with 

residential structures. 

E. Historical markers, monuments or signs as recognized by local, state, or 

federal authorities. 



 

28 – B- 6  

F.  Holiday decorations that do not convey a commercial message. 

G.  Any sign or display which is located completely within an enclosed 

building and which is not visible from outside the building or beyond the 

boundaries of the lot or parcel upon which it is located.  

H.  DELETE 

I.  Standard information sign. A sign with an area of not greater than four (4) 

square feet, with a sign face made for short term use (90 days or less), 

containing no reflecting elements, flags, or projections and which, when erect, 

stands at a height not greater than three (3) feet and is mounted on a stake or 

metal frame with thickness or diameter not greater than 1 ½ inches. 

J.  Political signs when the sign area is 32 square feet or less, provided such signs 

are related to a specific local, state, or national election and provided such 

signs are removed within ten days after such election.  Political signs larger 

than 32 square feet shall be regulated as temporary signs per Section 28-B-6. 

K.  Grave markers, headstones, memorial statues or similar remembrances. 

L.  Any sign approved by the Augusta Commission and incorporated into a 

bus shelter or bench. 

M.  Addressing signs – where the property is situated in an A, R-1, or R-2 zone or 

contains a single-family residence are subject to the following conditions: 

(a) Name, address numbers and letters affixed to a structure which are less 

than four (4) inches in height and which otherwise conform to the 

Augusta Roads & Addressing Ordinance. 

(b) Overall size of the sign may not exceed 18” in height and 24” in width 

and may be no higher than three (3) feet high, as measured from the 

ground under the sign to the top of the sign.   

(c) Signs utilizing brick, stucco or metal for decorative structural support 

may be 6 inches higher and 6 inches wider on all sides surrounding the 

18” x 24” sign, but in no case shall the sign be higher than three (3) feet 

high, as measured from the ground under the sign to the top of the sign.   

(d) No addressing signs may be internally illuminated in residential areas. 

(e) In no case shall addressing signs be placed in the public right-of-way or 

be placed in the clear-view easement of corner lots. 

N.  Inside faces of scoreboards or walls on athletic fields. 

O.  A living display on the ground of flowers or other plants which conveys a 

message. 

P.  Banners when specifically approved as to size, form, location and duration by 

the Augusta Commission. 

Q.  In B1, B2, LI, and HI zones, on every lot, or in the case of a shopping center 

or other multiple occupancy structure, on every building or storefront, one 

banner not exceeding (twenty-four) 24 square feet in area mounted flat against 

the building or projecting no more than two (2) feet therefrom, which is 

removed daily upon the close of business. 

R.  For shopping centers or other multiple occupancy structures, one sandwich 

board type sign per business or occupant, not to exceed twelve (12) square feet 

in area nor five (5) feet in height, nor less than three (3) feet in height, may be 

located within (ten) 10 feet of the building occupied by each business or 

occupant of such shopping center or similar structure.  Such sign must be 

removed daily upon the close of business. 



 

28 – B- 7  

S. On a lot which adjoins a public sidewalk where the main building is setback 

ten feet or less from the right-of-way line, a sandwich board type sign (not to 

exceed twelve square feet in area nor five (5) feet in height, nor be less than 

three (3) feet in height) placed within the sidewalk encroachment zone as 

identified in Section 3-8-ll of the City Code, shall be exempted.   Such signs 

shall be subject to the permitting requirement set forth in Code Section 3-8-11.  

Such signs must be removed from the sidewalk daily after the close of 

business. 

 

28-B-5  PROHIBITED SIGNS. The following types of signs are prohibited in Augusta, 

Georgia:  

 

A.  Pavement markings or sidewalk markings except those of a customary traffic 

control nature or otherwise approved by the City. 

B.  Signs attached to trees, lampposts, parking meter posts, hydrants, traffic signs, 

rocks or other natural features, telephone or utility poles unless specifically 

approved as to size, form, location, and duration by the Augusta Commission.   

C.  Signs mounted, painted, or otherwise displayed on the roofs of buildings. 

D.  Banners, except that banners may be used as temporary signs. 

E.  DELETE 

F.  DELETE 

G.  Any private or business sign, except as authorized by Augusta, Georgia, which 

restricts or appears to reserve any portion of public right-of-way or any public 

area for the exclusive use or private use of an individual, tenant, client, guest, 

or business. 

H.  Signs which in any way imitate an official traffic sign or signal, or contains 

words or symbols displayed in a manner which might mislead or confuse 

drivers of vehicles, or signs which any manner may unduly confuse, distract, or 

divert the attention of drivers of vehicles. 

I.  Signs which use flashing lights, strobe lights, blinking lights, or any type of 

pulsating or moving light, except moving message boards or reader boards. 

J.  Any sign painted on or attached to a vehicle and used as a stationary sign, 

where said vehicle is: 

1. not titled or displaying a current license tag, or 

2. located in a front yard per this Ordinance 

K.  Any sign which obstructs free ingress to or egress from a required door, 

window, fire escape, or other exitway. 

 

28-B-6  TEMPORARY SIGNS. One temporary sign per street frontage may be located on a 

lot, parcel or tract which is not occupied by a shopping center of similar multiple occupancy 

structure in a B1, B2, LI, or HI zone.  Except for those signs which are exempted under 

Section 28-B-4 of this Ordinance, there shall be no temporary signs within shopping centers 

or similar multiple occupancy structures in a B1, B2, LI, or HI zone.  A temporary sign that is 

not exempted by 28-B-4 may be located on property for a maximum of thirty (30) days per 

calendar quarter, either thirty (30) consecutive days or for three (3) ten (10) day periods.  A 

permit shall be acquired for a temporary sign, and a decal color-coded to the calendar quarter 

shall be affixed to the temporary sign before it is erected.  The temporary sign shall be 

removed when the decal expires.  If an applicant chooses to display a sign for three 

consecutive ten-day periods then such must or shall be noted on the application for a permit.  



 

28 – B- 8  

Using three (3) ten-day periods will require three inspections.  The setbacks and height 

requirement for permanent signs shall apply to temporary signs.  Temporary signs shall not 

exceed forty (40) square feet in area (1 side).  Temporary signs shall not be placed or located 

in parking spaces and shall not be an obstruction for sight distance.  A sign having less than 

six (6) square feet  shall be exempted from permitting and the thirty (30)-day maximum, but 

such sign shall be the only temporary sign located on said property. 

 

28-B-7 SIGNS IN AGRICULTURAL, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, TWO-

FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES (A, R-

1, R-2,  AND R3).  The following signs shall be the only signs permitted in Agricultural and 

Residential  zones: 

A. Entrance Signs For Approved Subdivisions. One subdivision entrance sign 

per entrance is allowed for residential subdivisions.  Such signs shall not exceed 24 

square feet in area or six (6) feet in height and illuminated only by indirect 

incandescent lighting.  The location of such sign shall not adversely affect traffic 

safety and the location shall be approved by the Traffic Engineer. 

B. Entrance Signs For Apartment or Condominium Complexes With More 

Than Ten Units in Two-family and Multiple-family Residential Zones.  One sign 

per street front.  Such sign shall not exceed 24 square feet in area or six (6) feet in 

height and illuminated only by indirect incandescent lighting.    An illuminated sign 

must be located at least 100 feet from the nearest existing single-family home.  The 

location of such sign shall not adversely affect traffic flow and shall be approved by 

the Traffic Engineer. 

C. Signs for Uses Permitted by Special Exception in Sections 15-18 and 26. 

When located in Agricultural or Residential zones, signs shall be prohibited in 

association with the following uses: family day care homes, family personal care 

homes, group personal care homes, transitional housing and home occupations.  When 

located in any other zone, these uses shall conform to the Regulations for that zoning 

classification.  When located in Agricultural or Residential zones, the following uses 

may have one non illuminated sign per street front which shall not exceed six square 

feet in area or five feet in height: lodging houses or tourist houses, fraternity or 

sorority houses, congregate personal care homes, and adult day care facilities.  When 

located in any other zone, these uses shall conform to the Regulations for that zoning 

classification. The following uses may have one sign per street front in an Agricultural 

or a Residential zone; church, private school, hospital (public or private), cemetery, 

nursing home, funeral home, inert landfill, sanitary landfill, or club per Section 26-1.  

Such signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area or six (6) feet in height.  An 

illuminated sign must be located at least 100 feet from the nearest existing single-

family home and may be illuminated only by indirect incandescent lighting.  When 

located in any other zone these uses shall conform to the Regulations for that zoning 

classification. All signs provided for in this Subsection shall be set back a minimum of 

ten (10) feet from a public right-of-way line or fifteen (15) feet from any curb or edge 

of pavement. 

D. Delete 

            E.        Addressing signs – subject to the conditions outlined in Section 28-B-4. 



 

28 – B- 9  

 

28-B-8 FREESTANDING SIGNS IN PROFESSIONAL, COMMERCIAL, AND 

INDUSTRIAL ZONES.   

A. Number of Signs.  In P-1, B-1, B-2, LI or HI zones: One freestanding-sign, 

excluding billboards, per street frontage (must be oriented toward the street 

frontage), plus one for each 300 feet of street frontage or plus one for each ten 

(10) businesses in a shopping center or similar multiple occupancy complex.  

Freestanding signs, including billboards, on the same property and on the same 

street frontage shall be at least 100 feet apart. 

 

B. Sign Surface Area.   

  

Sign Surface Area 

 
Max Sign 

Surface Area  

Max Sign Surface Area near 

single-family residence or R-1 

zone (on the same street) 

Max Sign Surface Area in 

PDR, National Register or 

historic districts 

P-1 zones 36 sq. ft. 24 sq. ft. w/n 200 ft. N/A 

B-1 zones 100 sq. ft. 50 sq. ft. w/n 100 ft. 35 sq. ft. 

B-2, LI, HI zones 200 sq. ft. 50 sq. ft. w/n 100 ft. 50 sq. ft. 

    

 

Note(s):  
* Planned Development Riverfront Zone (PDR). 
* B-2, LI, or HI zones the maximum surface area figures do not include 

billboards. 

 

 Freestanding signs may be either monument (completely enclosed base) or 

pylon (pole) supported.  There shall be no limitation on the size of a simple 

pole or beam support system.  For a monument sign, the supporting structure of 

the sign shall not be included in calculating the area of the sign permitted by 

this Ordinance; provided, however, that the supporting structure shall not 

exceed 50% of the total combined area of the sign and supporting structure.  

 

To encourage design excellence and enhance the aesthetic quality of 

development, the minimum freestanding sign surface area set forth above may 

be increased in all cases as provided herein.  A separate bonus may be granted 

for each of the criteria, but in no case may the total bonus exceed 45%.  Bonus 

provisions shall not apply to billboards or signs that are located within the 

Planned Development Riverfront Zone (PDR) or in National Register or 

locally designated historic districts (Title 7, Chapter 4 of the Augusta, Georgia 

Code). 

1) 10% bonus when the sign is constructed of solid wood and the design is 

compatible with the style, texture, and color scheme of the structure(s) 

on the site; 

2) 10% bonus when an area around the base of the sign is at least 4 times 

the area of the sign surface and the area around the base of the sign is 

covered by a landscaped planter; 

3) 10% bonus if the sign is unlighted; 



 

28 – B- 10  

4) 25% bonus where a proposed sign would replace an existing sign that is 

100% larger than the current Ordinance would permit, where the 

proposed sign location would not be within 100 feet of a single family 

residence or zone, and where the proposed sign would be the only 

freestanding sign on the property; 

5) 25% bonus if the lot qualifies for more than 1 freestanding sign but 

only 1 sign is erected, if the proposed sign location would not be within 

100 feet of a single family residence or zone; 

6) 25% bonus if the proposed sign location is more than 100 feet from any 

existing or proposed public street or highway right-of-way, the 

proposed sign is the only freestanding sign on the property, and the 

proposed sign location would not be within 100 feet of a single family 

residence or zone. 

C. Height.    

Height 

 

Max Height 
Max Height near single-family residence or R-1 zone 

(on the same street) 

P-1 zones 6 ft. 4 ft. w/n 200 ft. 

B-1 zones 20 ft. N/a 

B-2, LI, HI zones 30 ft. N/a 

   

 

Note(s): 

   * The maximum height of the sign shall be measured from the elevation of the 

      adjoining road grade or from the base of the sign, whichever is higher. 

 

D. DELETE 

E. Setback.  No part of any freestanding sign may be closer than ten feet from 

any public right-of-way line or fifteen feet from any curb or edge of pavement 

whichever is greater.  No freestanding sign may be located closer than 50 feet 

from a single-family residence or an R-zone boundary nor within 10 feet of any 

property line.  No sign shall be located so as to inhibit the visibility of 

motorists entering or leaving a public road. 

F. Clearance.   Adequate sign clearance shall be provided to assure that vehicular 

and pedestrian traffic movements are not adversely affected.  Minimum 

clearance of pole mounted signs shall be no less than 10 feet above pedestrian 

ways and not less than 15 feet above areas utilized by motor vehicles.   

G. Traffic Directional Signs.  The area, height, and setback limitations at 

Sections 28-B-8-B to 28-B-8-E shall not apply to on-site entrance, exit, or 

other traffic directional signs, provided that no such directional sign shall 

exceed 30 inches in height nor more than 4 square feet in area.  There shall not 

be more than two traffic directional signs per driveway entering or exiting the 

street frontage.  Such signs shall be set back at least 10 feet from any street 

curb or edge of pavement but not on any public right-of-way. 

H. Message Boards and Reader Boards.  Shall be permitted in B-1, B-2, LI and 

HI zones.  They shall count toward the maximum permitted freestanding 

signage set forth in Sections 28-B-8-B and 28-B-8-D.  



 

28 – B- 11  

I. Freestanding Outdoor Drive Through Menu Boards.  If not visible from a 

street right-of-way, menu boards shall not count toward the total freestanding 

signage permitted.  If visible from a street right-of-way, then such signs will be 

considered to be regulated freestanding signs. 

J. Illumination.   

Illumination 

 
Flashing signs or 

message board or 

reader signs 

Illumination not 

allowed near a single-

family residence 

 (on the same street) 

National Register or 

historic districts 

P-1 zones Not Allowed 100 ft. Not Allowed 

B-1 zones Allowed 100 ft. Allowed 

B-2, LI, HI zones Allowed 100 ft.            Allowed 

    

 

Note(s): 
* Illumination shall be oriented away from residential areas to any extent 

possible. 
* P-1 zones do not allow internally illuminated signs within one hundred (100 

ft.)   of a single- family residence or R-1 zone.  

 

K. Code Conformance.  All signs for which a building permit is required shall be 

constructed and maintained in conformance with City building and electrical 

codes.  Plans for all freestanding signs 30 feet or higher, or greater than 150 

square feet, shall be certified as to conformance with all structural and wind-

load resistive standards of the Building Code by a structural engineer registered 

in the State of Georgia, or be prepared using standard drawings prepared by a 

structural engineer or other qualified professional meeting or exceeding all 

requirements of the Building Code.  Freestanding signage that does not require 

an engineer's seal must include supporting foundation calculations.  All 

freestanding signage requires a foundation inspection.  Neon exposed or 

attached to a structure requires a final inspection.  All signage must have a 

disconnect switch located at the signage.  All signs involving internal lights or 

other electrical devices or circuits shall display a label certifying that all 

equipment or products are approved by one of the organizations currently 

recognized by OSHA as “Nationally Recognized Testing laboratories (NRTL)’.  

All signs, together with their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept 

in good repair and, unless constructed of galvanized or non-corroding  metal, 

shall be given a protective coating as necessary to maintain a clean appearance 

and safe condition. 

28-B-9  BUILDING MOUNTED SIGNS IN PROFESSIONAL, COMMERCIAL, AND 

INDUSTRIAL ZONES. 

 

A. Number and area of signs permitted. 



 

28 – B- 12  

 

Sign Surface Area 

 Number of signs 

per attached / 

detached buildings  

Max Sign Surface Area 
Wavier of freestanding 

signs on premises 

P-1 zones 1 36 sq. ft. 25 percent 

B-1 zones 
Unlimited 1 sq. ft. of sign surface 

area per linear foot  
25 percent 

B-2, LI, HI zones 
Unlimited 2 sq. ft. of sign surface 

area per linear foot 
25 percent 

    

  

      Note(s): 
                *Building mounted signs shall not extend above the roofline of the portion of 

                         the  building where it is mounted. 
    *  The maximum sign area is B-1, B-2, LI, and HI zones is measured by surface 

       area per linear foot of width of the building, parallel to the street. 
    *  For commercial and industrial zones, the maximum surface area of building 

       mounted signs is increased by 25 percent if the property owner signs an 

     agreement waiving all rights to future freestanding signs on the entire 

                  property. 

 

In commercial or industrial zones, the number of building attached signs shall 

not be limited.  The maximum area in B-1 (Neighborhood Business) zones 

shall be one square foot of sign surface area per linear foot of building width 

parallel to the street, or in the case of attached buildings, shopping centers or 

other multiple occupancy complexes, per individual front facade.  In B-2 

(General Business) zones, LI (Light Industrial) zones, and HI (Heavy Industrial 

Zones) the maximum area shall be 2 square feet of sign surface area per linear 

foot of building width. 

 

If any premises is entitled to use freestanding signs pursuant to Section 28-B-8 

but chooses not to do so and signs an agreement waiving all rights to future 

freestanding signs, then the maximum permitted building mounted signs 

surface area may be increased by 25 percent.  This bonus provision may only 

be applied to attached buildings, shopping centers, and other multiple 

occupancy complexes if there is no freestanding sign on the entire property, 

and an agreement is executed whereby future freestanding sign rights would be 

waived on the entire property. 

 

Building attached signage in B-2, LI, and HI zones may only be placed upon 

the front of a building facing the street upon which the area calculation is 

based.  

B. Canopy, Marquee, Mansard, and Awning Mounted Signs.  Building 

mounted signs may be placed flat against a building or on canopies, marquees, 

or mansard portions of roofs.  Regardless of where such signs are located they 

shall be counted toward the maximum building mounted sign surface area that 

may be placed on the facade upon which such signs are located or project from.  



 

28 – B- 13  

Such signs shall be affixed flat to the surface of a canopy, marquee, or mansard 

or project no more than three inches therefrom, and they shall not extend 

vertically above a canopy, marquee, or mansard.  Awning signs must be 

painted or printed directly on the awning and they shall also count toward the 

maximum building mounted sign surface area that may be placed on the facade 

upon which they are located or project from. 

C. Projecting Signs.  Building attached signage may not project more than two 

feet from the building wall upon which it is attached except for canopy, 

marquee, or awning mounted signs. 

D. Window Signs.  Window signs shall not be permitted in Professional zones.  

In B-1, B-2, LI, and HI zones, window signs may be permitted, but they may 

not occupy more than 20 percent of the area of any window.  In the Planned 

Development Riverfront Zone (PDR) or National Register or locally 

designated historic districts (Title 7, Chapter 4 of the Augusta, Georgia Code), 

no more than two windows in any structure may be used for signs. 

E. Illumination.  Building mounted signs in P-1 zones shall be non-illuminated.  

In B-1, B-2, LI, and HI zones, signs on the same side of a street or across a 

street from a single-family residence which is within 100 feet of the proposed 

sign location shall be non illuminated.  Otherwise, signs in B-1, B-2, LI, and 

HI zones may be illuminated. 

F. Code Conformance.  All signs for which a building permit is required shall be 

conducted and maintained in conformance with City building and electrical 

codes.  All neon applications shall require a final inspection.  All signage shall 

have a disconnect switch located on the signage.  All signs involving 

illumination or other electrical devices or circuits shall display a label 

certifying it as meeting standards of the Underwriters Laboratories.  All signs 

shall be kept in good repair. 

 

28-B-10  BILLBOARDS 

 

A. Location.  Billboards may be located only in B-2 (General Business), LI 

(Light Industrial), or HI (Heavy Industrial) zones in accordance with other 

provisions of this Section, except in areas and sites which would not be 

consistent with the desired overall character of the City and the information 

needs of tourists, businesses, and residents.  Billboards are prohibited within 

the following areas and sites: 

 Washington Road from the Calhoun Expressway to River Ridge Road, 1000 

feet from the right-of-way line; 

 Calhoun Expressway, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; 

 Gordon Highway from Bobby Jones Expressway to 1000 feet past Gate 1 at 

Fort Gordon (at Dyess Parkway), 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; 

(f) Doug Barnard Parkway from Gordon Highway to 1000 feet past 

Tobacco Road, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; 

(g) Bobby Jones Expressway from Doug Barnard Parkway to the Savannah 

River, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; 

(h) Jimmy Dyess Parkway, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; 

(i) Riverwatch Parkway, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; 

(j) Berckman Road from Rae's Creek to Washington Road, 500 feet from 

the right-of-way line;  



 

28 – B- 14  

(k) Wheeler Road from Bransford Road to Columbia County, 1000 feet 

from the right-of-way line; 

 Jackson Road from Wrightsboro Road to Wheeler Road, 1000 feet from the 

right-of-way line; 

 Walton Way Extension from Wheeler Road to Pleasant Home Road, 1000 

feet from the right-of-way line; 

 Davis Road from Pleasant Home Road to Columbia County, 1000 feet from 

the right-of-way line; 

 Pleasant Home Road from Washington Road to Walton Way Extension, 

1000 feet from the right-of-way line; 

 Wrightsboro Road from Barton Chapel Road to Columbia County, 1000 

feet from the right-of-way line; 

 Windsor Spring Road from old Louisville Road to Hephzibah City limits, 

1000 feet from the right-of-way line; 

 Tobacco Road, 1000 feet from the right-of-way line; 

 All national register historic districts and all locally designated historic 

districts under Title 7, Chapter 4 of the Augusta-Richmond County Code. 

 The Planned Development Riverfront District (Sec. 25 - A) 

 St. Sebastian Way from Walton Way to Reynolds Street, 500 feet from the 

right-of-way line. 

 Other areas and sites which may be designated by amendment to the text of 

this Ordinance. 

 

B.  Separation from single-family residential zone boundaries or uses.  Billboards 

shall not be located within 100 feet of any single-family residential zone boundary 

or the property line of a parcel occupied by a single-family residence.   

 

C. Setback.  The setback requirements for billboards shall be the same as the setback 

requirements for principal structures. 

 

D. Spacing between billboards.  There shall be no more than one (1) billboard for 

each seven hundred and fifty (750) feet of frontage on each side of any roadway.  

Any billboards located within five hundred (500) feet of the right-of-way line of 

the subject roadway shall be considered to be on the roadway, regardless of 

whether the sign faces or is oriented toward the subject roadway or toward another 

roadway, and regardless of whether or not there are intersecting streets.  No 

billboard shall be located less than three hundred (300) feet from any other 

billboards in any direction. 

 

Billboards located within six hundred and sixty (660) feet of the nearest edge of 

the right-of-way of an Interstate Highway must be permitted by the Georgia 

Department of Transportation.  For purposes of this Ordinance, any billboard 

located in this area shall be considered to be a part of the Interstate Highway 

System regardless of whether the sign faces the Interstate Highway or is oriented 

toward the Interstate Highway or toward another roadway, and regardless of 

whether or not there are intersecting streets. 

 



 

28 – B- 15  

No billboards shall be located on roadways designated as part of the Interstate 

Highway System within five hundred (500) feet of an interchange, intersection 

grade, or safety rest area.  The foregoing 500 foot zone shall be measured along the 

Interstate Highway from the point at which the pavement commences or ceases to 

widen at exits from or entrances to the main traveled way. 

 

E. Height.  No billboards shall exceed a height of sixty (60) feet from ground level 

measured from the elevation of the adjoining road grade or from the base of the 

sign, whichever is higher. 

 

F. Area.  The maximum area of a billboard’s face shall be three hundred (300) square 

feet on two lane roadways and six hundred seventy-two (672) square feet on 

highways with more than two lanes, plus temporary embellishments not exceeding 

twenty percent (20%) of the permanent sign area.  Only one (1) sign face facing 

traffic moving in one direction shall be permitted on  a billboard. 

 

G.  State and Local approval required: For routes designated as part of the National  

      Highway System pursuant to Title 23 USC Section 103, approval by both the City   

     and the Georgia Department of Transportation shall be required in order to erect or 

     modify a billboard. This shall apply to all State routes, the following streets and roads 

     that are part of the National Highway System, and any other streets and roads  

     subsequently added to that system: 

 

 Windsor Spring Road (Peach Orchard Road to Tobacco Road) 

Wrightsboro Road (R. A. Dent Boulevard to Columbia County boundary 

line) 

 Tobacco Road (Columbia County boundary line to GA 56) 

 

       H. Code Conformance.  All signs for which a building permit is required shall be 

constructed and maintained in conformance with City building and electrical codes.  

Plans for all freestanding signs 30 feet or higher, or greater than 150 square feet, 

shall be certified as to conformance with all structural and wind-load resistive 

standards of the Building Code by a structural engineer registered in the State of 

Georgia, or be prepared using standard drawings prepared by a structural engineer 

or other qualified professional meeting or exceeding all requirements of the 

Building Code.  Freestanding signage that does not require an engineer's seal must 

include supporting foundation calculations.  All freestanding signage requires a 

foundation inspection.  Neon exposed or attached to a structure requires a final 

inspection.  All signage must have a disconnect switch located at the signage.  All 

signs involving internal lights or other electrical devices or circuits shall display a 

label certifying that all equipment or products are approved by one of the 

organizations currently recognized by OSHA as “Nationally Recognized Testing 

laboratories (NRTL)’.  All signs, together with their supports, braces, guys and 

anchors, shall be kept in good repair and, unless constructed of galvanized or non-

corroding  metal, shall be given a protective coating as necessary to maintain a 

clean appearance and safe condition. 

 

I. Site Plan Required.  Every permit application for a proposed billboard or 

for any repair or replacement of an existing billboard shall be accompanied 



 

28 – B- 16  

by a site plan prepared by a registered surveyor.  The site plan shall show 

the proposed location for the subject sign, the distance of the proposed or 

existing billboard to the nearest billboards  on the same side of the 

roadway, the distance to the nearest billboards on the opposite side of the 

roadway, and also the distance to any other structures on the property 

where the new sign is to be located.  In the event of repair or replacement, 

the distance to existing structures on the property shall be shown.  The site 

plan shall be prepared and stamped by a registered land surveyor.  The 

surveyor shall be required to enter the correct map and parcel number and 

complete address for the property for which the permit application is being 

submitted.  The site plan shall be approved by the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department.  Once approved, the site plan shall be in effect 

for two years except that an approved plan may be rescinded at the request 

of the party who presented the plan for approval.  An approved plan cannot 

be renewed or extended beyond two years.  After a site plan has been 

approved, no other plans shall be considered that would conflict with the 

subject plan until two years have expired, or the approval has been properly 

rescinded.   

 

28-B-11 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.  Nothing contained herein shall be construed to 

ratify or approve the erection and/or maintenance of any sign which was erected in 

violation of any prior Ordinance, and any sign so erected shall be subject to removal as 

provided in this Subsection.  Signs that were in existence and were constructed in 

compliance with the terms of any prior Ordinance but do not conform to the provisions 

of this Section are hereby designated as legal nonconforming signs.  Signs which 

become legal nonconforming uses as the result of this Section may continue under the 

general standards for nonconformity in Section 5.  They may be maintained and 

repaired but they may not be enlarged, heightened, or illuminated (if not currently 

illuminated).  All signs defined herein as temporary signs, attention getting devices, or 

banners must either be permitted as temporary signs.  Non-conforming signs 

(permanent and temporary) not permitted as prescribed above, shall become illegal 

signs and the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall be authorized to 

issue citations and/or remove such non-permitted signs per Section 28-B-13.  All 

illegal and nonconforming signs shall be removed from a tract or parcel before any 

additional signs may be permitted on the same tract or parcel. 

 

28-B-12 ABANDONED SIGNS.  Signs that conform to this Ordinance, or signs that are 

made non-conforming as a result of this Ordinance which subsequently become 

abandoned signs shall upon abandonment be covered with a weather resistant opaque 

material which blocks the total sign surface area (billboards are exempted).  90 Days 

after the abandonment of a legal non-conforming sign the permit for such sign shall 

automatically expire and all exposed parts of said sign shall be removed.  The 

foregoing shall apply to all signs. 

 

28-B-13 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.  Enforcement of this Section shall be the 

              responsibility of the Augusta Planning and Development Department.   

 

The Augusta Planning and Development Department shall make routine inspection of 

all signs, and he shall also respond to issues raised by the public and other 



 

28 – B- 17  

departments.  Upon ascertaining a violation of the provisions of this Chapter, the 

Augusta Planning and Development Department shall cause to be served upon the 

offender, or to his agent, or upon the owner or his agent, or the occupant(s) of the 

premises a written notice to abate which shall: 

A. Describe the condition(s) constituting a violation, 

B. Demand that the violation be corrected or that the offending sign be removed, 

C. State that an inspection will be made no less than 10 days nor more than 30 

days after the notice is issued and at such time, if the conditions which 

constitute the violation have not been abated, then a citation will be issued. 

 

If, after the notice has been given and upon an inspection the offending sign has not 

been removed, then the Augusta Planning and Development Department shall issue a 

citation, and if the offending sign is a temporary sign or banner then the Augusta 

Planning and Development Department shall remove such sign.  If the offending sign 

is not a temporary sign, then the offending sign may be removed, or the offending 

condition may be corrected by the City at the expense of the offender and/or the owner 

and/or the occupant of the premises under direction of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department.  The City shall have a lien on the property upon which said 

sign is located to secure the amount expended for the abatement and all unpaid permit 

fees and delinquent charges due to such sign.  Citations shall be forwarded to 

Magistrate Court for placement on the earliest possible docket. 

 

Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter or any person refusing to 

comply with any notice to abate or other notices issued by the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department within the time allowed by such notice upon conviction 

shall be guilty of misdemeanor.  Each day is a separate violation.  Each violation of 

this Chapter shall be deemed a separate offense and punishable by a fine not exceeding 

one thousand dollars ($1,000) or by imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days, 

either or both in the discretion of the judge having jurisdiction. 

 

 

 

AMENDED AUGUST 2018 – SECTION 28-B-2, 28-B-4, 28-B-7  

AMENDED JULY 2015 – SECTION 28-B-2; 28-B-8-(B); 28-8-(C); 28-B-8-(J); 28-B-9  

AMENDED JUNE 2013 – SECTION 28-B-10 added (G)  

AMENDED APRIL 2013– SECTION 28-B-13  

AMENDED JUNE 2012 – SECTION 28-B-8-B  

AMENDED IN ITS ENTIRETY – DECEMBER 2011 

AMENDED MAY 2011 -  SECTION 28-B-8 (K)  

AMENDED NOVEMBER 2010– SECTION 28-B-10 (A)  

 

 



 

28 – C- 0  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

28 – C- 1  

SECTION 28 C 

 

ADULT ENTERTAINMENT 

 

28-C-1   REFERENCE TO THE CITY CODE.  This section relates to the Title 6 Chapter 1 

of the Augusta, Georgia Code entitled "Adult Entertainment."  This Code Section is 

included in part in the Zoning Ordinance as it relates to locations, or zoning districts 

and therefore to the extent that it relates to such plans, policies and zoning procedures 

must be followed. 

 

28-C-2   DEFINITIONS.  The following terms used in this Section defining adult 

entertainment establishments shall have the meanings indicated below: 

 

(a) Adult bookstore.  An establishment having a substantial or significant 

portion of its stock in trade, magazines or other periodicals which are 

distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, 

describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical 

areas or an establishment with a segment or section comprising five (5) percent 

or more of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials 

or five (5) percent or more of its net sales consisting of printed materials which 

are for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis 

on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or 

specified anatomical areas. 

 

(b)  Adult dancing establishment.  A business that features dancers displaying 

or exposing specified anatomical areas. 

 

(c)  Adult motion picture theater.  An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty 

(50) or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or 

characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to 

specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by 

patrons therein. 

 

(d)  Adult mini-motion picture theater.  An enclosed building with a capacity of 

less than fifty (50) persons used for commercially presenting material 

distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to 

specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by 

patrons therein. 

 

(e)  Adult motion picture arcade.  Any place to which the public is permitted or 

invited wherein coins or slug operated or electronically, electrically or 

mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other 

image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer 

persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are 

distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing 

specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. 

 

(f)  Adult video store.  An establishment having a substantial or significant 

portion of its stock in trade, video tapes or movies or other reproductions, 



 

28 – C- 2  

whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their 

emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual 

activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or 

section, comprising five (5) percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale 

of display of such material or which derives more than five (5) percent of its 

net sales from videos which are characterized or distinguished by their 

emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual 

activities or specified anatomical areas. 

 

(g) Erotic dance establishment.  A nightclub, theater or other establishment 

which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go 

dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are 

distinguished or characterized by an emphasis or specified sexual activities or 

specified anatomical areas. 

 

(h)  Escort bureau; introduction services.  Any business, agency or persons 

who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward, or profit, furnish or offer to furnish 

names of persons, or who introduce, furnish or arrange for persons who may 

accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of 

amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or 

within any private quarters. 

 

(i)  Good moral character.  A person is of good moral character according to 

this chapter if that person has not been convicted of a felony involving serious 

sexual misconduct, or a crime not a felony if it involves serious sexual 

misconduct, in the past five (5) years.  Conviction shall include pleas of nolo 

contendere or bond forfeiture when charged with such crime. 

 

(j)  Reserved. 

 

(k)  Reserved. 

  

(l)  Minor.  For the purposes of this Chapter, any person who has not attained 

the age of eighteen (18) years. 

 

(m)  Permitted premises.  The business location for which a permit and a 

Business Tax Certificate has been issued to operate an adult entertainment 

establishment. 

 

 (n)  Specified sexual activities.  Shall include any of the following: 

 

(1)  Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal 

intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of 

unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, 

or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship in any 

of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct:  anilingus, buggery, 

coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, 

pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty; or 

 



 

28 – C- 3  

(2)  Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, 

arousal or turmescence; or 

 

(3)  Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, 

coitus or masturbation; or 

 

(4)  Fondling  or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, 

buttocks or female breast; or 

 

(5)  Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating of the 

infliction of pain; or 

 

(6)  Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by 

human being; or 

 

  (7)  Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.  

  (o) Specified anatomical areas.  Shall include any of the following: 

(1)  Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic 

region; buttock; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the 

areola; or 

 

(2)  Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and 

opaquely covered. 

 

28-C-3   LOCATION. 

 

No adult entertainment establishments shall be located in any zone other than one designated 

as "LI" Light Industrial or "HI" Heavy Industrial under the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance 

for Richmond County, as incorporated in the Augusta-Richmond County Code, Title 8, 

Chapter 5.  In addition, no adult entertainment establishment or use restricted hereunder shall 

be located; 

 

 (a)  within 1,000 feet of: 

 

  (1)  A church or place of religious worship; 

 

  (2)  A public or private elementary or secondary school; 

 

  (3)  A child care facility; 

 

(4)  A boundary of a residential district as defined in the Comprehensive 

Zoning Ordinance. 

 

  (5)  A public park; 

 

  (6)  A cemetery; 

 



 

28 – C- 4  

(7)  The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined in the 

Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance; 

 

(8)  Another sexually oriented business which does not have a common 

entrance with an already licensed or exempted sexually oriented business; or 

 

(9)  A governmental building or site, which shall be defined as all public 

buildings, parks, and recreational areas owned, operated or occupied by Augusta. 

 

  (10)  Another sexually oriented business. 

 

(11)  Within the parameters of an area designated as an Augusta 

gateway/corridor in the Corridor/Gateway Action Plan (2000), as presently existing or 

hereafter modified, adopted by the Augusta Commission and on file in the office of the 

Clerk of the Commission.  Gateways and Corridors are defined as follows: 

 

a. Gordon Highway/Doug Barnard Parkway Gateway - All property 

located within 1000 feet of the intersection of the centerlines of these 

roadways;  

b. I-20/Riverwatch Parkway Gateway - All property located within 2000 

feet of the intersection of the centerlines of these roadways; and  

c. Peach Orchard Road/Gordon Highway Corridor - All property located 

within 1000 feet of the centerline of the following roadways:  Peach 

Orchard Road from Tobacco Road to Gordon Highway, and Gordon 

Highway from Peach Orchard Road to Walton Way. 

 

 (b)  A person commits an offense if he causes or permits the operation, establishment 

or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented business in the same building, structure, or 

its portion, or the increase of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, 

structure, or its portion, containing another sexually oriented business. 

 

 (c)  For the purposes of subsection (a)(1) through (9) of this section, measurement 

shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the 

nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises where a sexually 

oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of a church or 

place of religious worship, or public or private elementary or secondary school, or to the 

nearest boundary of an affected public park, a cemetery, residential district or residential lot. 

 

 (d)  For purposes of subsection (c) (10) of this section, the distance between any two 

sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening 

structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is 

located. 

 

 (e)  Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating as of January 1, 1996 that is in 

violation of subsections (a), (b) or (c) of this section shall be deemed a nonconforming use.  

Such use will be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed one year unless sooner 

terminated for any such reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more.  

Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the 

use may be changed to a conforming use.  If two or more sexually oriented businesses are 



 

28 – C- 5  

within 1,000 feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented 

business which was first established and continually operating at a particular location is the 

conforming use and the later established business is nonconforming. 

 

 (f)  A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is not 

rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or renewal of the 

sexually oriented business license, of a church or place of religious worship, public or private 

elementary or secondary school, governmental building or site, cemetery, residential district 

or residential lot within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business.  This subsection applies 

only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an application for a license is 

submitted after a license has expired or has been revoked.  



 

28-D - 1 

SECTION 28 D 

 

CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS 

 

 

28-D-1 As Permitted Uses - Conservation subdivisions shall be permitted uses by right in the 

Agricultural (A) Zone and in the following single-family residential zones:  R-1, R-1A, 

R-1B, and R-1C  if no lot is less than 60% of the minimum lot size permitted in the 

Zoning Classification, subject to the requirements of this Chapter. 

 

28-D-2 As Special Exceptions - Conservation subdivisions where one or more lots are 60% or 

less of the minimum lot size permitted in the Zoning Classification may be approved by 

Special Exception in the A, and R-1, R-1A, R-1B and R-1C Zones.  Procedures for 

approving conservation subdivisions as Special Exceptions shall be as established in 

Section 26.  Approval shall be granted on the basis of a specific plan and its consistency 

with the Comprehensive Plan, planning principles, and the general development pattern 

in the area. 

 

28-D-3 The Planning Commission may grant variances from the requirements found at 28-4 

through 28-12 if they are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, planning principles, 

and the general development pattern in the area. 

 

28-D-4  Tract Size - The minimum size tract which can be developed as a conservation 

subdivision shall be 20 acres. 

 

28-D-5  Greenspace Requirements - A minimum of 40% of the overall acreage of the tract   

shall be permanently protected as greenspace.  If property that could be developed under 

the present federal, state, and local statutes, rules, and regulations in the opinion of the 

Augusta Planning and Development Department makes up more than 50% of the 

proposed greenspace, then the minimum greenspace requirement is reduced to 30% of the 

overall acreage of the tract.  This greenspace may be dedicated to the Federal, State, or 

local government for permanent protection as greenspace if a unit of government chooses 

to accept such donation.  It may alternatively be dedicated to a homeowners association 

or to another entity (such as a land  trust) for permanent protection subject to prior 

approval of a greenspace management plan by the City of Augusta.  A greenspace 

management plan shall provide for the use, ownership, maintenance, and permanent 

protection of greenspace areas, and the allocation of responsibilities for maintenance and 

operation of greenspace and any facilities located thereon, including financial provisions 

for stewardship, maintenance, repairs and operation, and long term capital improvements. 

 

28-D-6   Use of Greenspace Areas - Greenspace may be landscaped and or left with a natural 

              vegetative cover in which no roadways, parking areas, or improvements other than the 

              following may be located: 

 

 Recreational facilities specifically permitted by the Planning Commission. 

 Underground utilities. 

 Gazebo's, wildlife observation facilities, boat docks, and similar facilities. 

 Landscaped stormwater detention areas. 

 Landscaped easement for drainage access, and sewer or water lines. 



 

28-D - 2 

 Other uses found to be compatible with the intent of this section by the Planning 

Commission. 

 

28-D-7 Buffers - Where a conservation subdivision is contiguous to an single-family 

residential zone or single-family residential use that is not part of a conservation 

subdivision, a buffer strip with a minimum width of 30 feet shall be provided.  If a lot 

in the conservation subdivision adjacent to the contiguous single-family residential 

zone or area is 80 percent or more of the minimum lot size required in the adjacent 

zone or area the buffer need not be provided adjacent to such lot.  This buffer strip 

shall be part of the required greenspace and provided for in the greenspace 

management plan, and it shall conform to the standard for protection in Subsection 8-

4-11 (e)(9) of the Augusta-Richmond County Tree Ordinance. 

 

        28-D-8 Lots - The portion of a conservation subdivision that is not devoted to greenspace 

shall be developed as lots and the related streets, utilities, retention facilities, etc.  

There shall be no minimum lot size, but housing must be detached and the total 

number of lots shall not exceed the number of lots that would be permitted by the base 

zoning classification in the opinion of the Planning Commission. 

 

28-D-9      Setbacks 

A) Front setbacks shall be as provided for in the R-1 zone, except that variances 

for lesser setbacks may be granted by the Planning Commission on an overall 

project basis depending on the nature of the proposal, the surrounding 

development pattern, the relationship to the Comprehensive Plan, site 

conditions, and general planning principles. 

B) Side Setbacks - the minimum side setback shall be five feet except that greater 

setbacks may be required to conform to fire codes. 

C) Rear Setbacks - the minimum rear setback is 25 feet, unless a lot is situated in 

such a way that the rear lot line is adjacent to a greenspace area, in which case 

the minimum rear setback is ten (10) feet. 

D) The setback for community recreational facilities shall be set by the Planning 

Commission on a case by case basis, but the minimum setback from any 

exterior property line shall be 30 feet. 

 

28-D-10 Lot Coverage - The maximum lot coverage, including main buildings and other 

incidental structures shall be 50% per lot. 

 

28-D-11 Building Height - shall be as provided for in Subsection 8-6 of this Ordinance. 

 

28-D-12 Home Occupations - may be permitted pursuant to the provisions of Section 8-3 

of this Ordinance. 

 

28-D-13 Accessory Buildings - shall be permitted pursuant to the provisions to Section 8-

4 of this Ordinance. 

 

28-D-14 TV Satellite Dishes - shall be permitted as accessory uses subject to the 

provisions of Section 8-5.1 of this Ordinance. 
 

Adopted – June 2003 



 

28-D - 3 

 



 

28-E - 1 

SECTION 28-E 

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS 

28-E-1  Recreational vehicle parks may be established after the effective date of 

this section if they conform to the following regulations: 

 

(a) Minimum Size - All recreational vehicle parks shall contain a minimum of 

one acres of land, and shall be located and dimensioned so as to facilitate 

efficient park design, use and management.  Recreational vehicle parks may 

be located jointly on a lot with another commercial use. 

(b) Minimum number of spaces – Before a certificate of occupancy will be 

granted all recreational vehicle parks shall contain at least ten recreational 

vehicle spaces, fully completed and ready for occupancy. 

(c) Access to site – Direct vehicular access to a recreational vehicle park shall be 

provided from an abutting, paved public street. However, the entrance drive 

may be shared with another use to which the recreational vehicle park is 

accessory or secondary. 

(d) Site conditions and Improvements –  

 

1. A recreational vehicle park site shall be such that the condition of the soil, 

groundwater level, drainage and topography do not create hazards to the 

property or to the health and safety of the occupants of the recreational 

vehicle park. 

2. The recreational vehicle park and its features shall be designed and 

developed in harmony with the topography, shape of the site and existing 

site features, to protect the recreational vehicle park and adjoining 

properties from objectionable views, and to provide for the practical and 

efficient operation and maintenance of the recreational vehicle park and its 

facilities. 

3. Any recreational vehicle park developed jointly with another commercial 

use shall be designed, located an developed so as to assure the adequate 

separation of the recreational vehicle park functions from those of the 

other commercial enterprise. 

 

(e) Internal Streets – All recreational vehicle parks shall contain a street system, 

properly adapted to the site’s topography, designed to provide convenient 

vehicular circulation within the recreational vehicle park and access to each 

recreational vehicle space.  The following requirements shall apply to the 

development of a recreational vehicle park’s street system: 

 

1. All recreational vehicle park streets shall be provided with a smooth, hard 

and dense surface, which shall be durable and well-drained under normal 

use and weather conditions.  Street surfaces and drainage facilities shall, at 

all times, be maintained in a state of good repair. 



 

28-E - 2 

2. Recreational vehicle park streets shall a have surface width of 15 feet for 

one-way streets, and 22 feet for two-way streets. Where on-street parking 

is to permitted on either one-way or two-way streets, the surface width 

shall be increased by 8 feet to allow for parking on one side of the street 

only, and by 16 feet for parking on both sides of the street. 

3. Street surface material shall be compacted gravel unless otherwise 

required by the Engineering Department.  Written approval of the street 

system and surface material by the Engineering Department shall be 

required before a permit will be issued. 

4. Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%), and curb radi shall not be 

less than 20 feet. 

 

(f) Water Supply System – Every recreational vehicle park shall provide an 

accessible, adequate and potable water supply. The following requirements 

shall apply to a recreational vehicle park’s water system: 

 

1. The water system shall be such that it is capable of supplying at least 100 

gallons of water, per day, to each recreational vehicle space. 

2. The location, design and construction of a recreational vehicle park’s 

water supply and distribution system requires the written approval of the 

County health department or the Augusta  Utilities Department before any 

permit will be issued. 

3. The design and size of the water system shall be based on the maximum 

number of recreational vehicle spaces to be contained in the recreational 

vehicle park. 

 

(g) Sewage Disposal System – A safe and sanitary method of sewage collection 

and disposal shall be provided in all recreational vehicle parks. The location, 

design and construction of a recreational vehicle park’s sewerage requires the 

written approval of the Augusta Utilities Department before any permit will 

be issued. Sewerage facilities shall be provided by one of the following 

methods: 

 

1. A park wide system may be employed and designed so that each 

recreational vehicle park space is provided with an individual connection 

to the sewerage system. In such cases, the system shall be of sufficient 

size to accommodate a sewage flow of at least 100 gallons per recreational 

vehicle space per day; or 

2. Sanitary stations at the rate of one station per ten (10) recreational vehicle 

spaces to be contained in the park may be used in lieu of individual 

sewerage connections.  Where sanitary stations are used, they shall be 

centrally located among the recreational vehicle spaces they are to serve, 

and shall have an individual capacity to accommodate sewage flow of 750 

gallon, per day. Sanitary stations shall be well screened, equipped with a 

self-closing hatch and connected to an approved sewage disposal system.  

Sanitary stations shall not be located closer than 50 feet to any recreational 

vehicle spaces. 



 

28-E - 3 

 

(h) Refuse Collection System – Every recreational vehicle park shall contain 

adequate facilities for the collection and disposal of refuse and other such 

solid waste. The following requirements shall apply to a recreational vehicle 

park’s refuse collection system: 

 

1. All refuse shall be stored in watertight, rodent-proof containers, which 

shall be located not more than 150 feet from any recreational vehicle 

space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to 

properly store all refuse. 

2. Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such 

container stands shall be designed so as to prevent containers from being 

tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration. 

3. All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least twice weekly. 

Where suitable collection service is not available from public or private 

agencies, the owner or operator of the recreational vehicle park shall 

provide such service. 

4. Where public or private disposal service is not available, the owner or 

operator of the recreational vehicle park shall dispose of the refuse by 

transporting such refuse to a disposal site approved by the City. 

 

(i) Recreational Areas – Every recreational vehicle park shall contain a 

recreational area appropriately developed for both active and passive 

recreation.  The following requirements shall apply to a recreational vehicle 

park’s recreational area: 

 

1. At least eight percent (8%) of the gross land area of a recreational vehicle 

park, or 8,000 square feet, whichever is larger, shall be reserved, 

developed and maintained for recreational purposes. 

2. No areas of a recreational vehicle park which are used for automobile 

parking, setback, service buildings, recreational vehicle spaces or other 

such function shall be counted as part of the required recreational area, 

except that recreational buildings may be included as part of the required 

acreage. 

3. Recreational areas shall be located so as to be easily accessible for all 

recreational vehicle park tenants, but shall not be located in areas where 

traffic hazards may exist. 

 

      Any development must comply with Section 3-B – Open Space/Recreation 

      Area 

 

(j) Restroom and Bathing Facilities –  

 

1. Every recreational vehicle park shall provide on-site toilet and bathing 

facilities for the exclusive use of the tenants of the recreational vehicle 

park. 

2. Such toilet and bathing facilities shall consist of at least one lavatory, one 

water closet and one shower stall, one of each provided and distinctly 

marked for each sex. 



 

28-E - 4 

3. Toilet and bathing facilities set forth in subsection 2 of this section shall 

be provided at the rate of one lavatory, one water closet and one shower 

stall for each sex for each ten (10) recreational vehicle spaces for 

occupancy in the recreational vehicle park. 

4. Toilet and bathing facilities shall be connected to the recreational vehicle 

park’s water and sewerage systems. 

 

(k) Other Service Buildings – Service buildings such as management offices, 

storage facilities, coin operated laundries and indoor recreational buildings 

may be permitted in recreational vehicle parks subject to the following 

restrictions: 

 

1. Such buildings and their parking areas shall not occupy more than five 

percent (5%) of the gross land area of the recreational vehicle park. 

2. All service buildings shall be subordinate to the character and function of 

the recreational vehicle park, and shall be located, designed and intended 

to serve the exclusive service needs of the recreational vehicle park’s 

residents. 

3. The Planning and Development Department shall have the authority to 

review and approve or disapprove the use and type of such service 

buildings that may be permitted within the recreational vehicle park. 

4. All service buildings shall conform to any lot size, setback and buffer 

requirements as may be imposed by the Planning and Development 

Department. 

5. All service buildings shall conform to any applicable building codes of the 

City. 

 

(l) Lot Size and Improvements – Every recreational vehicle park space within a 

recreational vehicle park shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the 

recreational vehicle to be placed thereon. The following minimum 

requirements shall apply to the development of each recreational vehicle 

space. 

 

1. Every recreational vehicle space shall measure at least 20 feet wide by 50 

feet long. 

2. Every recreational vehicle space shall be provided with a parking stand or 

space for the recreational vehicle, and shall be composed of not less than 

six (6) inches of compacted gravel or other acceptable surface material. 

3. Every recreational vehicle space shall an accessway constructed of 

compacted gravel or other acceptable material connecting an interior 

recreational vehicle park street with the mobile home stand. Such 

accessway shall be at least ten (10) feet wide and twenty (20) feet long. 

Vehicular parking may be permitted in the accessway. 

4. Every recreational vehicle space shall be provided with a weatherproof 

electrical connection supplying 110 volts. 

5. Every recreational vehicle space shall be provided with an individual 

connection (or service hydrant) to the recreational vehicle park’s water 



 

28-E - 5 

system; and, where centrally located sanitary stations as provided in 

Section (g)-2 are not furnished, the recreational vehicle space shall be 

provided with an individual sewerage connection as provided in Section 

(g)-1. 

6. Every recreational vehicle space shall be provided with ample room to 

assure that a typical recreational vehicle measuring 8 feet wide by 30 feet 

long can be placed on the space and  be located not closer than 20 feet to 

the centerline of any interior recreational vehicle park street; and closer 

than 35 feet to any recreational vehicle park service building, park 

property line or a public street right-of-way; and closer than 20 feet to any 

other recreational vehicle. 

 

(m) Supervision and Maintenance – The person to whom a  permit for a 

recreational vehicle park is issued shall be responsible for providing adequate 

supervision of the recreational vehicle park to maintain the recreational 

vehicle park in full compliance with this article, and to keep the recreational 

vehicle park’s facilities and equipment in good repair, and in a clean an 

sanitary condition. 

 

(n) Tenant Register – The manager of the recreational vehicle park shall keep an 

up-to-date register of the recreational vehicle park’s occupants, and shall 

maintain such register of departed occupants for a period of three (3) years 

following their departure.  The recreational vehicle park’s register shall be 

made available to any authorized person inspecting the recreational vehicle 

park, and shall contain the following information: 
 

1. The names of all occupants quartered on each designated recreational 

vehicle space. 

2. The description, make, model and year of all recreational vehicles and 

towing vehicles; and the state and license number of each. 

3. The dates of arrival and departure of occupants of each recreational 

vehicle coach space. 

 

(o) Buffer – Where a recreational vehicle park adjoins a single family residential 

use or zone, a buffer strip as provided for at 8-4-11(e)(9) and 8-4-11(e)(10) of 

the Augusta Code shall be provided. 

 

(p) Length of Stay - A recreational vehicle shall not be used as a permanent 

residence.  A recreation vehicle which will occupy a space or a lot for more 

than thirty (30) days must first secure a permit from the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department. All recreation vehicles must have all licenses 

appropriate to the state and county of origin, and in no case shall such vehicles 

be considered real property. 
 

 

Adopted April 2013 



 

28-F - 1 

SECTION 28-F  

PERSONAL CARE HOMES 

 

28-F-1 PURPOSE This section is intended to an enhance the quality of living standards of 

Personal Care Homes in order to protect the health, safety, and integrity of the residents.  

This section includes regulatory requirements, home design standards, and parking 

requirements for Personal Care Homes occupied by six or fewer unrelated individuals 

who reside there and receive care. These include Family Personal Care Homes, both as a 

Permitted Use and as a Special Exception granted per Section 26-1 (h), as well as Special 

Use Permits granted for a Personal Care Home per Section 8-3 (c). Other applicable 

requirements for Personal Care Homes include: Georgia Department of Community 

Health (DCH) requirements, International Property Maintenance Code, and Fire Code 

compliance.    

 

28-F-2 DEFINITIONS As used in this Section of the ordinance, the following terms shall 

have the meanings indicated:  

"Personal Care Home" - shall mean a building occupied by the property owners, or by a 

person or persons employed by the property owners, and also occupied by unrelated 

individuals who reside there and receive care and/or supervision from the property 

owners or persons in their employment. A personal care home shall provide care for 

elderly and/or handicapped persons. Personal Care Homes shall be classified as: Family 

Personal Care Homes, Group Personal Care Homes, and Congregate Personal Care 

Homes. 

 

“Personal Care Home Application” – The official application for a Personal Care Home, 

attached to a Special Use Permit application, a Special Exception application, or a 

permitted use zoning application.  

 

28-F-3       GENERAL REQUIREMENTS  

A. Regulatory Compliance: 

 

1. Personal Care Homes shall comply with all applicable city zoning, building, 

housing, and fire codes, and shall fully comply with the Georgia Department 

of Community Health (DCH) Rules and Regulations for Personal Care Homes 

(Section 111-8-62 of Georgia Code). Proof of compliance as a state registered 

Personal Care Home through DCH shall be submitted with a Personal Care 

Home Application. 

2. A Personal Care Home Application must contain a scaled floor plan of the 

entire residence, including the following details:  

a. Bedroom, bathroom, and common room dimensions (must meet 

standards set forth in Section 28-B Home Design Requirements). 

b. Number of persons per bedroom. 

c. Rooms labeled (i.e. bedroom, closet, bathroom, dining room, kitchen, 

etc.). 

d. Label area for use by residents and visitors which affords privacy (i.e. 

an area where residents can meet alone with visitors).  



 

28-F - 2 

3. The maximum number of residents allowed for the Personal Care Home is 

dependent upon the specifications in the Home Design Requirements Section 

below, as well as Department of Community Health (DCH) requirements. If 

the maximum number of residents allowed is different between DCH 

requirements and Municipal Code requirements, the more stringent 

regulations will apply.  

4. Applicant shall provide evidence annually to the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department that the facility continues to satisfy the conditions 

of approval set forth in this ordinance, as well as Department of Community 

Health (DCH) requirements. Evidence of compliance shall be submitted at 

least thirty (30) days before the renewal of a business license. During this 

time, the Augusta Planning and Development Department may inspect the 

home to ensure compliance with both the city ordinance and the business 

license requirements.  Evidence submitted in the business license renewal 

process shall include:  

a. A copy of the most recent DCH inspection report and plan for 

correction  

b. A copy of the most current and accurate licensed residential care 

profile  

5. Upon a Personal Care Home being approved, applicant shall make no 

alterations or additions to the primary structure for the purpose of increasing 

the number of individuals who reside there and receive care.  

6. Any Special Exception or Special Use Permit issued pursuant to this Section 

shall terminate if the structure is devoted to a use other than a Personal Care 

Home.  

7. If the structure fails to maintain compliance with all building, safety, health, 

and zoning requirements, the Special Exception or Special Use Permit shall be 

grounds for termination and the owner/operate shall thereafter be required to 

discontinue the use of the premises as a Personal Care Home.  

 

B. Home Design Requirements: 

 

1. Common Areas  

i. Homes serving a person dependent upon a wheelchair or scooter for mobility 

must meet the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design set forth by the 

United States Department of Justice.  ADA standard ramps within the front 

yard must include a landscape buffer around the perimeter of the ramp for the 

purpose of visual aesthetics.  

ii. The home must have handrails, grab bars, doorways and corridors which 

accommodate permitted mobility devices, such as walkers, motorized 

scooters, wheel chairs and crutches or canes as the  residents require for their 

safety and allows the residents to move about the home freely. Homes serving 

individuals in wheelchairs must have 60 inches by 60 inches of turning radius 



 

28-F - 3 

in all areas meant to be accessible to them, including but not limited to the 

bedroom, kitchen, living room, entrances and exits, and at least one bathroom.    

iii. The living room must be large enough to accommodate individuals without 

overcrowding. Homes with three (3) to five (5) individuals who reside there 

and receive care must provide at least 120 square feet of living room space.  

Homes with six (6) individuals who reside there and receive care must provide 

at least 150 square feet of living room space.  

iv. The home must provide a comfortable dining area which is properly equipped 

and adequate in size for the number of individuals who reside there and 

receive care. The dining area shall be adequate to seat all individuals who 

reside there and receive care at the same meal seating. Homes with three (3) to 

five individuals who reside there and receive care must have at least 80 square 

feet allocated for a dining room. Homes with six (6) individuals who reside 

there and receive care must have at least 100 square feet allocated for a dining 

room.  

v. The home must provide a fenced and accessible outdoor space for individuals 

who reside there and receive care.  

 

2. Bedrooms or Private Living Spaces 

 

i. Bedrooms or private living spaces must have at least 100 square feet of usable 

floor space per individual who resides there and receives care.  

 

3. Bathroom Facilities 

 

i. At least one (1) functional toilet and lavatory must be provided for each four 

(4) occupants, and at least one bathing or showering facility must be provided 

for each (6) occupants.  Occupants include persons who reside there and 

receive care, care providers, and other persons living in the home.  

 

ii. A home serving a person dependent upon a wheelchair or scooter for mobility 

must have at least one (1) bathroom that permits the person to use all 

bathroom fixtures easily and independently where able. The bathroom must 

meet the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design set forth by the United 

States Department of Justice.  

 

Home Design Spacing Requirements Summary Table  

Category Requirement 

Living Room 3-5 persons who reside and receive care  =   120 square feet  

6 persons who reside and receive care =       150 square feet  

Dining Room 3-5 persons who reside and receive care =      80 square feet 

6 persons who reside and receive care =       100 square feet 

Bedroom or private living 

spaces 

Per person who resides and receives care =  100 square feet 

Functional toilet and lavatory  Per 4 occupants* =                                    1 functional toilet 

Showering facility  Per 6 occupants* =               1 bathing or showering facility 



 

28-F - 4 

*Includes persons who reside there and receive care, care providers, and other persons living 

in the home.  

 

4. Off-Street Parking 

 

i. Homes must meet the requirements for Off-Street Parking found in Section 4-

2 “Off-Street Parking Requirements for all Areas except Central Business 

District (CBD)” of this ordinance. A summary of example required parking 

spaces for Off-Street Parking is provided below.  

 

Off-Street Parking Requirements Summary Table  

Number of 

Residents 

Space 

Allocated to 

Residents 

On-site 

Provider 

Visitor Total Required 

Spaces 

2 1 1 1 3 

3 1 1 1 3 

4 2 1 1 4 

5 2 1 1 4 

6 2 1 1 4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adopted: June 2015 
 



 

29 - 1 

SECTION 29 

 

EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS 

 

29-1 Public utilities and public services: The provisions of this Ordinance shall not be 

construed so as to limit or interfere with the construction, installation, operation and 

maintenance for public utility purposes, of water and gas pipes, mains and conduits, 

electric light and electric power transmission and distribution lines, telephone and 

telegraph lines, oil pipe lines or sewer mains, nor with incidental appurtenances such as 

relay boxes, etc. 

 

29-2 Height: 
(a) DELETED. 

(b) Through lots one hundred fifty (150) feet or less in depth:  The height of a 

building may be measured on such lots from the adjoining curb level on either street. 

(c) Through lots more than one hundred fifty (150) feet in depth:  The height 

regulations and the basis of height measurements on such lots for the street permitting the 

greater height shall apply to a depth of not more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from 

the street. 

(d) Structures permitted above height limit:  Penthouse or roof structures for the 

housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to 

operate and maintain the building, fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, roof 

signs, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, wireless masts, water tanks, silos, gas 

containers, or similar structures may be erected above the height limits herein prescribed 

subject to other provisions of this Ordinance, but no penthouse nor roof structure or any 

space above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional 

enclosed space for residential, commercial, or industrial use.   

 

29-3  Setbacks: 
(a) Yard regulations modified:  Where the yard regulations cannot reasonably be 

complied with, or their application determined, on lots of peculiar shape, location, or 

topography, such regulations may be modified as determined by the Augusta, Georgia 

Board of Zoning Appeals. 

(b) DELETED. 

(c) When a lot adjoins only one lot having a main building (within twenty-five (25) 

feet of its side lot line) which projects beyond the established front setback line and has 

been so maintained since March 25, 1963, the front setback requirement on such lot may 

be the average of the front yard of the existing building and the required front setback, 

provided, however, the front yard of such lot shall not be less than ten (10) feet. 

(d) DELETED. 

(e) For the purpose of side yard regulations, semidetached and row dwellings with 

common walls will be considered as one building occupying one lot. 

(f) Front and side yards waived:  The front and side yards may be waived for 

dwellings, hotels, and lodging or apartment houses erected above the ground floor of a 

building when said ground floor is designed and used exclusively for commercial 

purposes. 



 

29 - 2 

 

29-4 Projections into yards: 
(a) Porte-cocheres, carports:  Such structures may be permitted over a driveway in a 

side yard, provided such structure is not more than one story in height and thirty (30) feet 

in length (including storage space), and is entirely open on at least two (2) sides except 

for the necessary supporting columns, provided, however, said structure does not extend 

within five (5) feet of the side lot line. 

(b) Eave or canopy:  An eave, canopy, or other similar architectural feature may 

extend into any required yard not more than three (3) feet. 

(c) Open stairway and balcony:  An open, unenclosed stairway or balcony, not 

covered by a roof or a canopy, may extend into a required front yard not more than three 

(3) feet. 

(d) Open porch: An open unenclosed porch, platform, or deck not covered by a roof 

or canopy, which does not extend above the level of the first floor of the building, may 

extend or project into any required yard not more than four (4) feet. 

 

29-5 Minimum lot reduction for underground utilities:  
The minimum required lot area within an R-1 zoned subdivision may be reduced two 

percent (2%) when the subdivision is developed with all utilities underground.  When 

such reduction occurs, a utility easement of one and one-half (1-1/2) feet shall be 

provided along the front property line. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                Amended June 2006, Section 29-4(b) 



 

30 - 1 

SECTION 30  
 

BUILDING PERMITS AND SITE PLANS 
 

 

30-1 Building Permit:  Before a permit is issued for the erection, moving, alteration, 

enlargement, or occupancy of any building or structure or use of premises, the plans and 

intended use shall indicate conformity in all aspects to the provisions of this Ordinance. 

 

30-2 Site Plan:  A building permit under the provisions of the building code of Augusta, 

Georgia for the purpose of constructing or expanding a structure only be issued upon the 

presentation of, but not limited to, a survey or a site plan that has been approved by the  

staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. Such site plan or survey 

shall be drawn to scale, showing accurately the dimensions and location of the 

following: property lines, easements, utilities, structures, signs, off-street parking, 

driveways, retention facilities and any other information that may be necessary to the  

administration and/or enforcement of this Ordinance. Such site plan or survey shall be  

submitted by the Staff to all departments of Augusta and other entities that are deemed  

appropriate and they shall review and approve said site plan before it is approved by the 

Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department. 

 

 

30-3 Interpretation of Ordinance:  In interpreting and applying the provisions of this 

Ordinance, they shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of health,  

safety, welfare, morals, and convenience of the general public. The lot or yard areas 

shown on a survey or site plan as required by this Ordinance for a particular building 

shall not be diminished nor be included as part of the lot or yard areas of any other  

building. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended – January 2017 



 

31 - 1 

SECTION 31  

CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY 

 

 

31-1  A Certificate of Occupancy shall be required for any of the following: 
 (a) Occupancy and use of a building hereafter erected or enlarged. 

 (b) Change in use of an existing building to a different use.  

 (c) Occupancy and use of vacant land except for the raising of crops. 

 (d) Any change in nonconforming use.  

(e) After submitting plans and specifications to the Building Inspector and upon 

issuance of a building permit, the builders will have complied with this Ordinance 

for all purposes, provided said building is constructed in accordance with said 

plans and specifications. 

(f) No such occupancy, use or change of use shall take place until a Certificate of 

Occupancy has been issued by the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department. 



 

32 - 1 

SECTION 32  

ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES 

 

 

32-1 It shall be the duty of the Chief Building Official to enforce the provisions of this 

Ordinance in the manner and form and with the powers provided in the laws of the State 

and Ordinances of the Augusta Commission. 

 

32-2 All commissions, boards, departments, officials, and employees of Augusta which are 

vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the 

provisions of this Ordinance and shall issue no permit or license for any use, building, or 

purpose if the same would be in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance.  Any 

permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance shall be null and 

void. 

 

32-3 The erection, construction, alteration, addition, conversion, moving or maintenance of 

any building or structure and the use of any land or building which is continued, 

operated, or maintained, contrary to any provisions of this Ordinance is hereby declared 

to be a violation of this Ordinance and unlawful.  The Attorney of the Augusta 

Commission shall immediately, upon any such violation having been called to his 

attention, institute injunction, abatement, or any other appropriate action to prevent, 

enjoin, abate, or remove violation. Such action may also be instituted by any property 

owner who may be damaged by any violation of this Ordinance. The remedy provided for 

herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other 

remedies provided by law.  

 

32-4 Any person or corporation whether as principal, agent, employee, or otherwise who 

violates any provision of this Ordinance shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction 

shall be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500) and/or 

imprisonment for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days.  Cases shall be tried in 

Magistrate's Court. 



 

33 - 1 

SECTION 33 
 

BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS 
 

33-1 Authorization: Established by virtue of the Home Rule Provision of the Constitution of 

the State of Georgia of 1983 and codified by an Ordinance of the Augusta  Commission 

dated March 18, 1997.  The Board of Zoning Appeals for the Augusta Commission shall 

be hereinafter referred to as the "Appeals Board". 

 

33-2 Membership:  The Appeals Board shall consist of ten (10) members each of whom shall 

reside in one of the ten districts of Augusta. 

 

33-3 General Provisions:  The Board of Zoning Appeals shall elect one (1) of its members as 

Chairman, who shall serve a one (1) year term or until a successor is elected.  The 

Chairman may succeed himself. 

(a) The Chairman shall have the power to vote on matters before the Appeals Board  

              only when his vote will change the result. 

(b) The Appeals Board shall appoint a secretary who may be an official or employee 

             of either Augusta Commission or of the Augusta Planning and Development 

             Department. 

(c) Meetings of the Appeals Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at 

             such other times as the Appeals Board may determine. 

(d) The Chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and 

              compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. 

(e) The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of  

             each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such 

             fact, and shall keep records of its examinations filed in the office of the secretary  

             of the Appeals Board and shall be a public record. 

(l)      The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this section of 

     this Ordinance. 

 

33-4 Procedure:  Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals may be taken by any person 

aggrieved, or by any official, department head, board, or bureau of the Augusta 

Commission, affected by any decision of an administrative officer. Such appeal shall be 

taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Appeals Board, by filing 

with the Secretary of the Appeals Board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds 

thereof. 

  (a) Action of Augusta Commission: 

(1) Upon notice by the Secretary of a filing of appeal, the official from whom 

the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Appeals Board all papers 

constituting a record upon which the action appealed was taken. 

(2) An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of action appealed 

from, unless the official from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Appeals 

Board, after notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of 

facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to 

life and property. In such a case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a 

restraining order which may be granted by the Appeals Board or by a court of 

record on application, on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and 

on due cause shown. 



 

33 - 2 

(b) Action of Appeals Board: Upon receipt of notice of appeal in a form prescribed 

by the Appeals Board, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall: 

(1) Fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred 

to it. 

(2) Publish once in a newspaper of general circulation in Augusta a "Notice of 

Public Hearing" on the appeal. Such notice shall be published at least fifteen (15) 

days prior to the date of the hearing and shall indicate the time and place of the 

hearing and the nature of the appeal to be considered by the Appeals Board. 

(3) Send postal cards or letters to the property owners of record whose 

property lies within a 300-foot radius of the property subject to the appeal, giving 

notice of the time, place, and nature of the appeal. 

  (4) Upon the Hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent, or attorney. 

 

33-5 Powers of Appeals Board: 
(a) To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is error in any order, 

requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the 

enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance adopted by the Augusta Commission 

pursuant to this Ordinance.  

(b) To hear and decide requests to place manufactured homes as second living units 

on properties for no longer than one (1) year, on the basis of hardship. 

New medical hardships and annual renewals are subject to the following 

requirements: 

 

(1)     The living unit must be accessory to the primary residence which otherwise 

          lawfully exists. 

(2)     The manufactured home must be used exclusively to house a family member 

          or spouse of the primary resident. 

(3)      Recreational vehicles or RVs and travel trailers are not acceptable as living 

          units. 

(4)      A follow-up inspection by the Planning and Development Department will 

           be conducted within 60 days of the medical hardship approval to insure that 

           the secondary living unit meets the minimum requirements of the 

           International Property Maintenance Code and related codes and ordinances.  

           The following will be required: 

 

i.   The manufactured home must be built to the U.S. Department of 

Housing and Urban Development (HUD) standards and inspected by 

the Planning and Development Department. In the event that living 

unit is a modular home, it must be approved by the Georgia 

Department of Community Affairs (DCA).  

ii.   The manufactured home shall be installed in accordance with 

O.C.G.A. Title 8, Chapter 2, Article 2, part 3, and be properly 

anchored and skirted. 

iii.   All necessary improvements must be performed by a licensed 

contractor after the unit is placed. 

iv.   The tax decal must be current and clearly displayed on the unit. 

v.   The living unit shall be in good condition, and meet the following 

minimum space requirements: 



 

33 - 3 

 

 

Space Requirements Summary Table 

Category Minimum Requirement 

Living area 

(includes 

kitchen and 

dining room 

areas) 

 

150 square feet (gross floor area) 

 

Bedroom 

 

One 

person 
50 square feet (gross floor area) 

Two or 

more 

people 

70 square feet for two people, plus 50 square feet for each 

additional person 

Hallways 
28 inches measured from interior wall to opposing finished 

wall 

Toilet 

compartment 
30 inches of unobstructed space 

Functional 

toilet and 

lavatory  

1 functional toilet and lavatory 

Showering 

facility  
1 functional bathing or showering facility 

 

(3)     The authorized use may lawfully continue, and any permit issued shall 

remain valid, only so long as all of the conditions described in this section continue 

to exist. 

 

(c) To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of the 

Zoning Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to 

special conditions, literal enforcement of the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance 

will, in an individual case, result in an unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of 

the Zoning Ordinance shall be preserved, public safety and welfare secured, and 

substantial justice done.  Such variance may be granted in such individual cases of 

unnecessary hardship upon finding by the Appeals Board that: 

(1) There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the 

particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or 

topography; and 

(2) The application of the Zoning Ordinance to this particular piece of 

property would create an unnecessary hardship; and 

(3) Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; 

and 

(4) Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good 

or impair the purpose and intent of the Zoning Ordinance; provided, 

however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or 

structure which is prohibited by the Zoning Ordinance. 



 

33 - 4 

(d) To authorize the operation of certain businesses as home occupations pursuant to 

regulations promulgated by the Augusta Commission. 

(e) In exercising the above powers, the Appeals Board may, in conformity with the 

provisions of this section, reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the 

order, requirement, decision, or determination; and to that end, shall have all of 

the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct 

issuance of a permit. When a variance is granted that would require the issuance 

of a building permit, an individual granted a variance by the Appeals Board has a 

period of one year from the date of approval to obtain a building permit. Anyone 

that fails to obtain a building permit within the one year period forfeits the 

variance right previously granted. 

(f) An appeal that is denied by the Appeals Board cannot be reheard for a period of 

one year unless the Appeals Board unanimously grants this privilege. 

 

 

33-6 Appeal from decision of Appeals Board:  Any person or person severally or jointly 

aggrieved by any decision of the Appeals Board or with any official charged with the 

enforcement of any order, requirement, or decision of said Board may appeal said 

decision to the Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia.  The procedure for said 

appeal shall be the same as an appeal to the Superior Court from any decision made by 

the Probate Court as provided by the laws of Georgia, except that said appeal shall be 

filed within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision of the Appeals Board or any 

official charged with the enforcement of any order, requirement, or decision in 

connection therewith; and upon failure to file said appeal within thirty (30) days, the 

decision of the Appeals Board shall be final. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended: March 2016 – 33-5(b) 



 

34 - 1 

SECTION 34 

ZONING MAPS 

 

34-1 CONTENT.  The official zoning maps of Augusta shall be a layer of the Geographic 

Information System which shall contain the boundaries of the various zoning districts of 

the City.  The Official Zoning Maps as defined herein are hereby duly incorporated as an 

indispensable part of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. 

 

34-2 RELATIONSHIP TO PREVIOUS MAPPING.  The zoning classifications established 

by the adoption of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance on March 25, 1963, 

reconfirmed on November 15, 1983, and thereafter duly amended prior to the effective 

date of this amendment will be the zoning classification represented on the Official Maps 

as identified by this Amendment at its adoption.  The zoning classification of properties 

in Augusta and the regulation of the uses of those properties shall not in any way be 

changed by this amendment. 

 

34-3 LOCATION AND METHOD OF DISPLAY.  The official zoning maps shall be 

available for inspection by the public at the office of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department and at other locations at the discretion of the Planning 

Commission and they may be displayed either electronically or in a paper format. 

 

34-4 PUBLIC INSPECTION PRIOR TO ADOPTION.  The Official Zoning Maps were 

available for inspection by the public prior to adoption during the period of notice 

prescribed in O.C.G.A. 36-66, during the public hearing required by O.C.G.A. 36-66, and 

during the meetings of the Augusta, Georgia Commission at which time their 

incorporation into the Zoning Ordinance was considered. 

 

34-5 RESPONSIBILITY.  The safekeeping and maintenance of the Official zoning Maps 

shall be the responsibility of the Executive Director of the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department.  

 



 

35 - 1 

SECTION 35 

AMENDMENTS TO THIS ORDINANCE 

35-1 Review of Proposed Amendments:  This Ordinance, including the map or maps, may be 

amended from time to time, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have 

been proposed by, or first submitted to the Planning Commission for review and 

recommendation. 

 

35-2 Procedures for Public Hearing: 

 

(a) The Planning Commission shall conduct, on behalf of the Augusta Commission, 

all public hearings on proposed amendments to this Ordinance and maps. 

(b) At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing, the Planning 

Commission shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation 

within the territorial boundaries of the local government a notice of the hearing.  

The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearing.  If a zoning 

decision of a local government is for the rezoning of property and the rezoning is 

initiated by a party other than the local government then: 

 

(1) The notice shall include the location of the property, the present zoning 

classification of the property, and the proposed zoned classification of the 

property; and 

(2) A sign indicating the present zoning classification and the proposed 

zoning classification shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the 

property not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. 

 

(c) The Recommendations of the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the 

governing body having jurisdiction within thirty (30) days.  If the Planning 

Commission fails to submit a report within the thirty-day period, it shall have 

deemed to approve the proposed amendment. 

 

35-3 Application for Amendment:  Each application to amend this Ordinance, including the 

map or maps, shall be filed with the Augusta Planning and Development Department and 

shall be in compliance with the following: 

 

(a) A conference with the Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development 

Department shall be held prior to submission of the application. 

(b) A statement from the owner of the property submitting the petition, or a statement 

from the owner of the property designating his representative in the petition, shall 

be furnished with the petition on a form supplied by the Augusta Planning and 

Development Department. 

(c) A properly prepared plat of the property showing distances and bearings of the 

boundaries and a tie to a known point shall be included with the petition.  This 

can be waived by the Staff when the proposed rezoning involves complete 

parcel(s) under the Tax Assessors PIN scheme. 

(d) A letter from the owner or his authorized representative requesting the 

amendment, including a statement regarding the proposed use, address and 



 

35 - 2 

telephone number for correspondence, and any other information required 

elsewhere in this Ordinance, shall be included with the petition. 

(e) A fee which has been calculated by the City of Augusta as representative of the 

cost of processing an advertisement of the proposed amendment shall be paid at 

the time of application. 

 

35-4 Staff Evaluation:  The Staff, upon receipt of an application for an amendment to this 

Ordinance shall: 

 

(a) Consult with other departments of the Augusta, Georgia to fully evaluate the 

impact of any zoning change upon public facilities and services including, but not 

limited to, drainage, traffic and related facilities: 

(b) Conduct a site review of the property and the surrounding area. 

(c) Study each application with reference to the balancing test established in Guhl v 

Holcomb Bridge Road Corporation and its compliance with the Comprehensive 

Plan. 

(d) Report its findings and recommendation to the Planning Commission, which 

report shall be a matter of public record. 

(e) The Staff of the Augusta Planning and Development Department report may 

recommend the applicant’s request be reduced in land area and /or recommend 

conditions of rezoning which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose of this 

Ordinance will be served. 

 

35-5 Planning Commission Action:  The Planning Commission shall review and make a 

recommendation of approval, denial, deferral, withdrawal without prejudice, or no 

recommendation on each application for which a public hearing is held in accordance 

with an Ordinance of the City Council of Augusta, Georgia and the Board of 

Commissioners of Richmond County, enacted April 1, 1983 and codified after 

consolidation of the governments as Article 8, Chapter 5 of the Augusta Code.  The staff 

recommendations on applications shall be submitted to the Planning Commission prior to 

the public hearing.  A report of the Planning Commission’s decision shall be submitted to 

the Augusta Commission.  The action of the Planning Commission may recommend a 

reduction of the land area for which the request is made and/or recommend conditions of 

rezoning which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose of this Ordinance will be 

served. 

 

35-6 Governing Body Action:  The Augusta Commission shall, at a regular meeting, approve, 

deny or defer action on such application.  The action of the Augusta Commission may 

recommend a reduction of the land area for which the application is made and/or 

recommend conditions of rezoning which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose 

of this Ordinance will be served.  When such conditions are added to approval of an 

application, the Augusta Commission shall require that a Zoning Restriction Agreement 

be recorded with the Clerk of the Superior Court of Augusta Georgia.  The cost of 

recording such agreement shall be borne by the applicant. 

 

35-7 Reversionary Clause:  The Planning Commission may submit information to the Augusta 

Commission having jurisdiction relative to property which has been rezoned for a period 

of eighteen (18) months from the date of approval, and for which no site plan or 

subdivision development plan approval or building permit has been obtained.  The 



 

35 - 3 

Augusta Commission may then review such information and, if considered appropriate, 

initiate reversionary zoning procedures.  Such reversionary actions shall proceed in 

accordance with the amendment provisions of this Ordinance. 

 

35-8 If the zoning decision of a local government is for the rezoning of property and the 

amendment to the Zoning Ordinance to accomplish the rezoning is defeated by the local 

government, then the same property may not again be considered for rezoning until the 

expiration of at least six (6) months immediately following the defeat of the rezoning by 

the local government pursuant to O.C.G.A. 36-66-4-(c) (2012). 

 

35-9 Land Adjacent to Fort Gordon Military Installation:  Zoning proposals (including  

changes of zoning and special exceptions) involving land locating with 3,000 feet of the  

Fort Gordon Military Installation boundary shall be evaluated Pursuant to O.C.G.A. 36- 

66.6.  The Planning Commission, in conducting this evaluation shall request from the 

Fort Gordon Commander a written recommendation and supporting facts, and if 

provided, such information shall be considered and made part of the public record.  The 

Planning Commission shall investigate and make a recommendation regarding the 

following: 

 

(a) Whether the zoning proposal will permit a use that is suitable in view of the use of 

adjacent or nearby property within 3,000 feet of a military base, military installation, 

or military airport; 

(b) Whether the zoning proposal will adversely affect the existing use or usability of 

nearby property within 3,000 feet of a military base, military installation, or military 

airport; 

(c) Whether the property to be affected by the zoning proposal has a reasonable 

economic use as currently zoned; 

(d) Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will or could cause a safety 

concern with respect to excessive or burdensome use of existing street, transportation 

facilities, utilities, or schools due to the use of nearby property as a military base, 

military installation, or military airport; 

(e) Whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policy and intent of the land 

use plan; and 

(f) Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use of the 

nearby property as a military base, military installation, or military airport which give 

supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal. 

 

35-9.1 Halfway Houses and Drug Rehabilitation Centers:  When a proposed zoning decision 

relates to or will allow the location or relocation of a halfway house, drug rehabilitation 

center, or other facility for treatment of drug dependency, a public hearing shall be held 

on the proposed action.  Such public hearing shall be held at least six (6) months and not 

more than nine (9) months prior to the date of final action on the zoning decision.  The 

hearing required by this subsection shall be in addition to any hearing required under 

subsection (a) of this Code section.  The local government shall give notice of such 

hearing by: 

 

(a) Posting notice on the affected premises in the manner prescribed by subsection (b) 

of this Code section; and 



 

35 - 4 

(b) Publishing in a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of 

the local government a notice of the hearing at least 15 days and not more than 45 

days prior to the date of the hearing. 

 

Both the posted notice and the published notice shall include a prominent statement that 

the proposed zoning decision relates to or will allow the location or relocation of a 

halfway house, drug rehabilitation center, or other facility for the treatment of drug 

dependency.  The published notice shall be at least six (6) column inches in size and shall 

not be located in the classified advertising section of the newspaper. 

 

35-9.2 Land adjacent to the Cities of Hephzibah and Blythe:  When a rezoning or special 

exception is initiated by a property owner or by Augusta, Georgia affecting property 

located within 1,000 feet of either Hephzibah or Blythe, notice must be given to those 

local municipalities.  Such notice shall be in the form of a certified letter sent within five 

(5) business days of the acceptance of an application to the appropriate municipality.  The 

notice shall contain all relevant data and request a determination as to whether the 

proposed action would constitute an incompatible land use.  If within ten (10) business 

days after receipt of this notice the appropriate municipality notifies Augusta-Richmond 

County by certified mail that the proposal could constitute an incompatible land use then 

Augusta, Georgia and the municipality must begin a negotiation process described in an 

agreement between Augusta, Georgia, Hephzibah, and Blythe dated June 30, 1998 known 

as the “Agreement to Resolve Land Use Classification Disputes”. 

 

35-9.3 Land adjacent to the Augusta Canal:  The Augusta Canal is a Regionally Important 

Resource (RIR) as identified by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs pursuant 

to the Georgia Planning Act of 1989.  As such any request for a rezoning or special 

exception affecting property located within the Augusta Canal National Heritage Area is 

subject to a review process initiated through the Central Savannah River Area. (RDC). 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amended 35-8 – April – 2013 

Section amended in its entirety – 5-1-2007



 

35 - 1 

SECTION 36 

EFFECTIVE DATE 

 

 

36-1 This Ordinance shall take effect on September 16, 1997. 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

37 - 1 

SECTION 37 

SEVERANCE CLAUSE 

 

 

37-1 If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this Ordinance shall be ruled invalid or 

unconstitutional by any Court or competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect 

any other section, clause, provision, or portion of this Ordinance. 



 

37 - 2 

 All Ordinances or parts of Ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance are hereby 

repealed. 

 

 

 Done in Open meeting of the Augusta Commission under the Common Seal thereof  this 

16th  day of  September, 1997. 

 

 

 Approved this                 day of          September           , 2011 

 

 

 

 

 

       _____________________________ 

       Mayor  

       Augusta, Georgia  

 

ATTEST: 

 

 

 

                                      ________ 

(Witness) 
 

 


