
City of Chelsea
Zoning Ordinance

Ordinance Number 2017-09-05-748

Revision of Ordinance Number 12-04-24-621
(This ordinance supersedes previous ordinance)

Approved by the
City of Chelsea Planning and Zoning
Commission

August 28", 2017

Adopted by the City Council
City of Chelsea
Shelby County, Mabama

September 5", 2017

City of Chelsea Zoning Code i




Approved and adopted this the 5th day of September, 2017

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tony Picklesimer, Mayor Cody Sumners, Councilmember
Scott L. Weygand, Councilmember David Ingram, Councilmember
Tiffany Bittner, Councilmember Casey Morris, Councilmember

I, Becky C. Landers, City Clerk of the City of Chelsea, Alabama, hereby certify the attached to be a
true and correct copy of an Ordinance adopted by the City Council of Chelsea, at the regular meeting
held on September 5th, 2017, as same appears in minutes of record of said meeting, and published
by posting copies thereof on September 6th, 2017, at the public places listed below, which copies
remained posted for five business days (through September 12th, 2017).

Chelsea City Hall, 11611 Chelsea Road, Chelsea, Alabama 35043
Chelsea Sports Complex, Highway 39, Chelsea, Alabama 35043
U.S. Post Office, Highway 280, Chelsea, Alabama 35043
Chelsea Senior Lodge, 706 County Rd 36, Chelsea, AL 35043
City of Chelsea Website-www.cityofchelsea.com

 

Becky C. Landers, City Clerk

City of Chelsea Zoning Code ii




Table of Contents

Article 1. Preamble and Enactment Clause ..............cccceccescesccescceeeesceceeescessenseessenseessseseeeees -1-
SOCtION 1.1. AUQHOLILY cssccscssascscaveessssnwaawes actwatiens cece ceding sineie seine vee ceenen see sWeies Kee pven sen seeanicenss -1-
Section 1.2.. Interpretation Of OrdinANCe ....55...cevescscercrccsecvessevssscreeeeasecvoescesseeoesescnwesosens -1-

Article 2. Introduction, Purpose, and Application ............cc cece eecenc ence eeeeneeeseeesensenseeeeeeseeeeees -3-
Section 2..1.. SHO Title ......00.ceseneesssnsstice nncnsibed.s issised be as eeiiaw os La soma eaineeiees Lwtlsla Was ocileinesiinea -3-
Section 2.2. The Official ZONING MAD «+ masses consewnss seacsenns ssesaciens cecesivnes oeinmees actenieciesis aconeciiess « -3-
SECtION (2.3. PUPPOSC ..0sceswscsisvacerccnvencensinis caseesawe une eesies seems eesecsseseeneveesenserereneewereneneserees -3-
Section 2.4. Methods ...........cccccescesceecencenceescencenceneeeaeeeseeseeseenseeesenseessesenseeseeasenseeeees -3-
Section 2.5. Application Of REGULATIONS ............ceeceece eee eeeeeceeececeeeeeeeeaeeetenseessenseeseeeseeeees -3-
Section 2.6. Zoning Of ANNEXE LANG « co essews cwessesse wenn’ evenness scnesinwnee sieneseienedunnayes ec'sagen sees’ -4-

Article 3. Terminology ...........ccccesceenceenceeneeenceneceeneeeeeeeeeseeeeeeesaeeessseeeeeeasenaseeneeseneeeeeeees -5-
Section 3.1. Generally. ........cccccccccencceeceecceeeceeneeeeeeeeeaeeeneeeeeeseeeeseseeaseeeseeeeseeeeseeeeeeees -5-
Section 3.2. Interpretation of Certain Words and Terms ............cceeeescescesseeecessecsecseecseeeeeees -5-
SECON 3.3. DEFIMITIONS jsi:cns csecenavs voscsisees ce emnene casinwarens oe ceinsitinn siniewerewins od eies@enectnecsinns nnsiceesien nee -5-

Article 4. Zoning Districts ANd BOUNAALIES .............sceece eee e scence eee eee eeseneeeesenseesenseeeeenseensenees -17-
Section 4.1. Establishment of Districts...............csceece eee eee ence eee eeeeneeeeeensenseeseeeeeeseeneeeeens -17-
Section 4.2; ZONING MAD: .....05cscsssrssicccceracsceveecs tonseuwsacewsnvases secaiawnn seas cesen seeeee awh an ecaeaanan -17-
Section 4.3. District BOUNATICS i053 secccevccecssavesceseccccsievessenveesvcesecssecesecsecsseenseseercesevees -17-
Section 4.4. Annexed Property .......... cc cceeceeceeceeeeeeeneeeeeeneeneeeesecseeteesseeseeseeseeesenseeneees - 17-

Article 5. General Regulations ...........ccccceece eee ece eee eee eee eeeeeeeenseeeeeneenseessensenseeseeeeeeeteneenaes -19-
Section 5:1; GeNETALLY. «; cccssssccveaas saavscnas soseaesns cemvincss oconsansy ocauwed sen anerwen as nesnneees secesay ages -19-
Section 5.2. US:0F LAN sascsssesvescrsesesnens evvewe svsweeseagveesencoreesssesevasccueasancanoesssescenssereeee -19-
Section 5.3. Use of Structures ........... cece cece eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeenseeeneeeeseeeeeseeeseeesseeseeeeeseeeeees -19-
Section 5.4. NONCONFOrMING USES ...........cceece ese e ence eee eeeeeeeseeeeeeeenseeeneeeeesseeeeensseesseenseees -19-
Section 5.5. Height Of Structures a... .cisvesssscveses coiainine'ss seieseineinis 6 Suebinevinn enews sas siaenales eeeeceees es -19-
Section 5.6. Dimensional Regulations cee e eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeaeenseeeneeseeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeenees -19-
Section 5.7. Building Materials Standards .............ccceceeesee sence eeeceeseeeenceenseeeseeeeeeeeseeseees -19-
Section 5.8. Encroachment on or Reduction of Open Spaces ..........:eceececseceeeeceeeeeeeseeseeeeees - 22 -
Section: 5.9. Off-Street Parking and: LOAGING...cee+ ecerisese saweseeinns sesieinieine seiveeviney ene cinieniee eeeiiieieeis ee -22-

Section 5.10.
Section 5.11.
Section 5.12.
Section 5.13.
Section 5.14.
Section 5.15.
Section 5.16.
Section 5.17.
Section 5.18.
Section 5.19.

Building to be ON LOtS..........c cece eee eee ee eee ence eeeeeeeeeeensensenseescesenseeseeseesees -22-
ACCOSSOFY BUIINGS ........000ccncccnee neste ne cdsedee nd seceeeeeea sane eseecneieee’d secssesiccee dee - 22 -
Maiti Building ON ‘ONE LOE sis: ccscsceasecscesnsssessaess cowsensess somensseedeesioess seseasensencs - 22 -
Me) |p) am © Lecot0 | 9Y- 10 [6h -22-
BUIdING Material Storage. sc. ssissssss sancieniens esac s saemecainis sais oailena caimisiemaine daielewesiees diate -22-
Parking or Storage of Major Recreational Vehicles ..............cceeseeeeee esse eeeeeeeeee - 22 -
Parking and Storage of Certain Vehicles............. sce e cee eee cence eee eeneeeeeeeeeeeeeees -22-
Lot Width at Street Lin€..... ccsssvscceweneseasesanneesaeseearensecsvessssenseninnic de ceiueins ane -22-
Home Repair and REMOdeling ........... ce cceceeeeesc eee e eee eseeeeeeeeensenseenceneseeseneees -22-
Keeping of AnimallS’.....ccsscscssccecs cevesitisive sais sivaainn Lisiidina ns sadWslewad coneWdaden saceeaiees 008 -22-

City of Chelsea Zoning Code iii




Table of Contents

Section 5.20. Requirements for Keeping of Livestock ...............scceeceeceesccnceccccsseeeeesseeseeacs - 22 -
Article 6. Regulations by Districts ............c cee ece eee e nce ee ence eeeeneeeeeeneeeeceesensenseeeseeseeeteseenses - 25 -
SeEction 6.1. INtrOdUCTION .......... cece sce eee ence eee ee een eeneeeeeneeeneeeeeeeseessensenseeseeesenseessensens -25-
Section 6.2. ‘Zoning: District INCENE +: .ccssess csancwssccsenies« conwenwine seinteensasawanea sis sananewnn sea sie ee He - 25 -
Section 6.3. Permitted, Supplemental, & Special Exception Uses, and Uses Not Permitted....... - 26 -
Section 6.4. Use Limitations ............. cece ecce cece enc eeeeeeeeeeneeeesacceneeeseesenseeeeeeeseseeeseeceeees - 26 -
Section 6.5. Classification Of USES ............ccee ccc e nce e nce eeteeeeneeeeeeensseensseeesseeseeenseeneeeeeaees - 26 -
Section. 6.6. UNclassified USES siiess sisacnaas cecncans cevncnns sveneanwns sesemeses sausiscomes acwamwens vemaeeeee seine - 26 -
Section 6.7. Area and Dimensional RequireMents.............scceceeceecseeceeceeeeenteeseeneeeseneeeeees - 29 -
Section 6.8. Buffer REQUIFEMENES ...........c cece eee ence ence ence eeeeeeneeeeaeeeseeeeeseeeseeeeseeeseeeeeees - 30-
Article 7. Planned Development Districts ...............cescesceeceescesceeecesceseecsessentenseessesseesseeees - 33 -
S@CtION 7.1. INCCNE asi csssviscscseeves convene sence caccecwwass ve meesess comwnenees sa swenine relaneeeeiee venmeneis oes - 33 -
SECTION 7.2. PrOCECUIES...........ccecccenceenceenceeneeeeeeeeneeeseeenseeeesseenseceassenseeeeesenseeenseeeaees - 33-
Section 7.3. REStIiCtiONS ...........ccecceeceeceeeeeeeeteeseeneeeeeeeeeneeeecenseeseensensenseeseenseessersensees - 33-
Section 7.4. Planned Development District Plan Requirements ...........ccsceeceeeseeeeeeeeeeeeseeeees - 34-
Section 7.5. Incentives for Planned Development Districts .............ccecceeeeeeceececeneeeseeeeeees -35-
Section 7.6. Open SPace ........ceececceceeeeceeeeeeeeeeeseeeeneenseesnseeseneesenseeenenseneeneneeneeeeeeenees -35-
Section 7.7. Plan Review and Approval ............sceeceecceeeeeeeneeessenseeseessensenseeeeeeseeeseeeenaees - 36-
Section 7.8. Planned Residential District (PRD) ............cccecsecseeceeeeeseenceeececenseesseeseeesenees - 37-
Articlé 8. SitiartCode: DIStrict . sesssess sasverwes caccneey vassieaenceenwe seis ceeceiis vewieiiews + sues veneers soe - 42 -
Article 9. Supplementary Use Regulations and Modifications..............ccececeeeeeeereneeeeeeeeeneeaeees - 43 -
Section 9.1. Applicability and EnforceMent............ccsccceeceseeeeeteeeereesenteaeeeeeeeaeeaeneeeneenes - 43 -
Section 9.2. Supplemental Regulations for All USES ...........cceceeeeeeenteneeeeeeeneeeeneeeeeeeeeeeeues - 43 -
Section 9.3. Applicability and ENfOrceMent 0.22... c0sececseceeeesccescseacs soveveeescceecesueecttesseseees - 44 -
Section 9.4. Agricultural US@S............. cc cceee eee eee cece ee eeeceeeenseneeeneensenseenseesseeseneeeseeeeneees - 45 -
Section: 9.5. CONndOMINIUM. .....0i000 ss ssinns seaannaes EatmTiNns DaNeninwes Wein nwies dem peecaes semua tie see eineE esses - 45 -
Section 9.6. Assisted! LIVING FACTILY: scssssssocesses avseense coowaieecis vasinenieinsie odsneeninas saesnision sneneeeeeesees - 46 -
Section 9.7. Auto Dismantling, Junk, and Salvage Yards.............ccsceeeeceeceeeeceeeeeeneeneenensenes - 46 -
Section 9.8. Bed and Breakfasts. ............cceceeceeee eee eeeeseencseeeeneceesenseeseessesenseeseersenseeaees - 46 -
Section: 9.9. Boarding HOUSES siissss esseas sane s ievanans venssenas aammesmase os cone ns cunseweseswaesseees evens - 46 -
Section: 9.10. CAMPer Parks. cass cvs csssseee cconsnens swsnsieen cewasenare esieeeeeuiere ociensiens seeeemerieesenaiecie oeeee - 47 -
Section 9.11. CEMELETICS ........ cee cee cece eee e eee ence eee eeeseeenceeeeeeneteesseesseeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeees - 48 -
Section 9.12. Conservation SUBDIVISION .......... 2... ccc eee e cece ence eee eeeeeeeeeeeneeeeseseneeeeeseeeeeees - 48 -
Section 9.13. Day Care Facilities ............ ccc ecce cece ence cence eneeeneeeeneeeeseseseseesseeeeseeeseeeseees - 52 -
Section 9.14. Drive-in Theaters ............cccc cece eee eee cee eeccceeecccceesecseeeensseeeecsseeeeeesseeeeees - 54-
Section 9.15. Dwelling, ACCESSOLY jc cciesss seccwess aaveewe ss sa ceevens eneciececs cocvecetecceevesees eeensases tenes - 54-
Section 9.16. Dwelling, DUPLEX ......... cece ece cece ence ee ene ence eeeeseeeeeeseenseessensensseesenseesenees - 55 -
Section 9.17. DWEUING, FOUrDIEXK, sacs ssccsaans sxesiisin  saiwasion o sensionisiny seamen s onnsiinn os cocsimiis on nese - 55 -
Section 9.18. Dwelling, Garden Homes, Patio HOMES .............cceeceeeeeceeseeeececceeeeeesenseeseeees - 55 -

City of Chelsea Zoning Code iv




Table of Contents

City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Section 9.19. Dwelling, Townhomes/Attached ............ccceeceeeec cence eeeeeeeeeeteeeeseeneeeseeeeeees - 56 -
Section 9.20. Dwelling, Manufactured HOMES ............cceeceeeeeseeeceeeeeneeeeeeseeeeensenseensenseeees - 56 -
Section 9.21. Dwelling, Upper-Story.............cceecceesceeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeennseeeeeesnseeeseenes -57-
Section 9.22. Manufactured Homes and Trailers, Office Space ............ ccc eeee eee e eee eeeeeeeeseeeees - 57-
Section 9.23. Group HOMES ...........cceeceseenceeceeceeeeeaeeneeeeeeeeeeseeeeneeeeeensenseeeeeseeneeneeeees 58 -
Section 9.24. HOME OCCUPALIONS............. cee ceeeeee eee e nee ne esse eee eeeeenceneseesensensseseeseeeeenseeees - 58 -
Section 9.25. Independent Living Facilities ..................scecceece eee eeceeceeeescescesseeseessenseeeses - 61
Section 9.26. Industrial USCS ............cccecceee esc e eee ec ence eeeeeeeeseeeeeeaeeseeeseeeeeeeeesenseseseeeeeuees 61
Section 9.27. Kennels and Animal Shelters. ............ccccseeesceeceesceeeeneeneeeseeseesecnseneeeeesenees - 62
Section 9.28. Manufactured Home Parks .............ccescsscccccscccsccecceescesceecesceeseessensesesensees - 62
Section 9.29. Mini-warehouses, Mini-StOrage ...........cecceeecceeeceeesceeeceeseeeeseeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeseees - 64 -
Section: 9.30. Places Of WOrSHIP .0.scesesaae coesesareneenaass nennciuisies onasiinsie eoeiwenes sesinesiveeensigeeseeses - 64 -
Section 9.31. Pub Restaurant ...........ccccceecesc eee eeceeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeseeseensenseeeseceeeseeesenseenees - 64 -
Section 9.32. Railroad Facilities...; cc :icssssicecseas ssscnnass sectioning aesitisisnnn « cpieinnide.s ocinbiainieis 6a'ecisieweins wine - 65
Section 9.33. Temporary QULKOOF SALES wc .ccssesissnssseescasvnewen cosesenesenssesiene egeeseseiecneeseinies sees - 65
Section 9.34. Temporary Structures ...........cccceeeeeeeeceeee eee eeeeeeeeeceeeeescsneeeeeesseeseesenseeseens - 65 -
Section 9.35. Public Utility Facilities........... cece ccc eee cece eee eeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeneensenssenseeeeees - 66
Section 9.36. Veterinary Clinics, Veterinary Hospitals ...............cceecesceeceecneceneeeeeeeeeseeeees - 66
Section 9.37. Wireless Telecommunications Services and Facilities..............cceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees - 67 -
Section 9.38. Other Supplementary USES ...........cceceeee eee eee eeeeeeeesceeeeeseeeenseeseesseneeeseeaees -74-
Article 10. Off-Street Parking and Loading RequireMents..............cecceeceseeeeencenceeeeeseeeseneeeess -77-
Section: 10.1. Applicab ity sisccssccccasuas sscvvrwea cxenaews oawwinsicnise seiieesinies session semaines ansenense reac -77-
Section 10.2. Rules in Applying Parking Standards..............cccceecesceeseesceeceeseeseeeeeenseneesers - 78
Section 10.3. Location of Required Parking Spaces...........c.scscescesceccecescesensesecseeensesensenss - 78 -
Section 10.4. Loading Requirements--Specified USES .............cceecesceecceeenceeseeeenseeeseseenees -79
Article 111. Sign REQULALIONS «x ssicsinss <cisiniaes sccvnciinis acistivincies eciaaiesinins viaisiebisninn 6clasisensie g onlasiea bese oseicesbaceoeis 81 -
SECHION 111,14. INTONE siccricccnsecececcsvessecvess sv arvvsnvessenercessnecceness ess cvsetesscceneSoeecveceseesesoes 81
Section 11.2. Measurement Determinations .............cceeeeeceeee eee eeeeeeeeeeencencenseeaeeeeeessensees - 81-
Section 11.3. EXCMPt SIGNS s.cccs3s sccscnascacmwens cacwasacescuenans caceaeNEes codeine saneNeves saesie seen aawaions - 81-
SECtion 11.4. ProhiDIted SIGNS sssccssevss cosveaensaecesnos seevewsis seaeesnseenesnees ceacsssencoenensesecsseens - 82
Section 11.5. Permitted Signs ...........c cece ccc ece tence eee eee ence ee eeeeeaeeeeeeeeseeaeeneeeseeseeeeensens - 83 -
Section 11.6. Design, Construction, Location, and Maintenance Standards..............cseeeeeeeeeee - 85 -
Section 11.7. AAUMINISCrACION «4... cccscessscessceescevscavencecedicctasesivieess sees sie seeded sv edieenss sieessees 86 -
Section 11.8. NONCONfOrMINg SIGNS ........... cee eeee eee eee eee e eee enna ee eee eens senses eeeeeneeeeneeeeeeeees - 87 -
Section 11.9. Abandoned SIQNS « cccccsss cavensssscsumacnecscrinwss sanmannadavabwatin o anewecens coves waanseraees - 88 -
Section 11.10., Wegal SIGNS... «csvvessnnwsenos savpnnens cmegeinsesiineseomiesede cenenossacesonsseweseiens enmeesees 88 -
Article 12. NONCONFOrMING USES..............cscccsccccccscncccessceceescscceessccesesesseeesccceeessseesesssseees 90 -
Section 12.1. Non-conforming Uses in GENEral ..60045cessevesccvecevarccesvesgeteertenssssoeeeies soveeeess - 90 -
Section 12.2. When Continuance of Use Permitted; Change in Use ............. cc cee eee senses eee eeeees - 90 -




Table of Contents

Section 12.3. Structures or Premises Vacant For One Year ............sceeceeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenees - 90 -
Section 12.4. Enlargements, etc., Of Nonconforming USe.............cscceseeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees - 90 -
Section 12.5. Structures Conforming To District Regulations but Not Other Regulations........... - 90 -
Section 12.6. Restoration of Damaged Buildings ..............cceece eee eec eee eeeeneeeeeeeseeeeenseeeeenees -90-
Section 12.7. Reestablishment of Nonconforming Use ..............sceeeceeceeecenceeeeeeeseesenseeseeees -90-
Article 13. AGMINISTIALION. scisasssccssaasss cavesencs saeaiivns ccvsecnnescvvassinn seisbelnsised emaddeie ee seeesneassesseeenes 92 -
SECtION 13.1. ENFOPCEMENE a5: cessssssssicecwcsesscvewees siecsseswecewveeins sesenseee sewieeeee selesieness seneaeine se 92 -
Section 13.2. Zoning Certificates ......... ccc cece eee ece ence eee eeeeeeeeeeeseeneenesecsenseeeseesensenseees - 92
Section 13.3. Procedures for Requesting a Supplemental Use..............:eceeeeeeeeeeeeseeeseeeseeees - 92 -
Section 13.4. Violation and Penalty ...............ccceesceesceecceeesceecsceeeeeeeseeseseeesseesseesseeenees - 93 -
Section 13.5. Temporary Emergency Relief ..............cceceeceseeeeeeenceceneeneeuseeenseuseseneeueeseess - 93
Article 14. Board of Zoning ACjUStMENE ............ cece cece eee e eee eeeeseeneeeeeeecenseeeeeeseeeeeesenseesens - 94 -
Section 14.1. APPOINMEN sciccscsssccancecnscacwtaias ca cewsaracanenmsssanceasins cwewewens anaiesewees «ee eeseies.ce 94 -
SECtHION 14.2. PrOCECUIPE wis s sasisiicass caweseinn asmsawsina civ dinsie cwewedeines siasieeaies ses sist ais esiaiesies ee vi ciesioueis tes 94 -
Section 1.4.3. AUMINISEFALIVE REVIEW waseaees cicaneusewcsesses snceesnar veonneiwnn oaesesenss cuseeeeies veceeenne ous -94-
SECTION 14.4. VAriANCES ........ ee cee ec ee eee eee e eee eee e ence eee e eee eeeeeenseeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeseeeneeeeaeeeneees 94 -
Section 14.5. JUSCPICALION 0... 5cc6600c5cadcnrcececcnasscasiesaecendsnn dees sieetines to suaies sesweceascaveesesecseys 94 -
Section: 14.6. Application for a VariAaNCe ....60s.c0scscvcssccecscesnescceverescseeccssssececseessseceseceeess - 94 -
Section 14.7. Public Notice REQUIFEd ........ ccc eee ce eee ee eee e eee neeeeeeeneeeeeeensensesensenseeeuseeenes - 95
Section 14.8. Action ON Appeals...........ccccecc ence ence eeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeneeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeaeen - 95 -
Section 14.9. Appeals - HOW Take sssccsss cc cccassccwswer es nxsweni nc sveenen es s isivinnniens aadieiesisies s sieteweiee one's - 95 -
Section 14.10. Stay of Proceedings ......cccccssccessceeseceesecesceessceesecessecenssesacecesseceseesseeens -95
Section 14.11. Appeals from the Action of the Board..............cce eee eee eee e eee eeeeeeeeseeeeeneeeeees - 96-
Article 15. Amendments and Changes ............ccceeceesceesceeeceeeeceeseeeeseeeseeeseeeesesesseeeenseneaees - 98 -
Section 15.1. Requirements for Change ...........ceceseecesceeeceseeeeeeneeseeeenseseesseeeeeeeseaseeeees - 98
Section 15.2. Petition for or Initiation Of Change..............cccsceeeeceeeeeeceseeseeeeeeeeenseeeeuenees - 98 -
Section 15.3. Action ON Petition .......... cece cece sce ec ence eee ee eeeeteeeeeeaeeeeeeseeseeeeeeeeeeeeees - 98 -
Section 15.4. PUBLIC NOtICE 0... cece cee ee cece eee te ete ence ee eeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeseeteenseeeeees 98 -
Section 15.5. City Council Action on AMeNndments ............c.ccsecesccsncenceeccencescesscesceesesseees - 98 -
Section 15.6. Limitations on ReZoning REQUESTS ............cecceee eee eee ee eee eee eee eeneeeeeeneeeeeeaees - 99
SECTION 15.7. FEES 00... ccc eee cce eee e eee ee ence eee ee eee eens ene e eee eaeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeens 99
Article 116.. Légal Status: PROVISIONS... sss: caus. cenasassceseccesscewarsesoswenuwas sea eeseeeadeeasciecacesewasaasinnes - 100
Section 16.1. Severability Of Ordinance .............. cece ccc e seen eee e eee eeneeeeeeenaeeeeseeseeeeeaeeeeees - 100
Section 16.2. Conflict with Other Regulations...............cccceecceecceeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeseesseeesenes - 100 -
SECHION 16.3. VALIGICY: os cs cssavs s secwaens cowwewaer vionnians areewaiees oa wseunien sew eaew ors euswaeeid cownseees seeeans - 100 -
Section 16.4. Repeal of Existing Zoning ReSOLUtION.............. cc cc cece eee e eee eeceeeeeeeeseeeeseeeaees - 100 -
Section 16.5. Effect upon Outstanding Building Permits...............ccceceeeeeeceeceeseeeseeseeseenees - 100 -
Section 16.6. Effective Date ...... cece eee ccc ec ence ee eeeeneeeeeeeseeeeeaeeeeeeseeeeenseesesseseeenee 100 -

City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Vi




Article 1. Preamble and Enactment Clause

WHEREAS Chapter 52, Article 4 of Title 11 of the Code of Alabama, 1975, as amended, empowers the
City of Chelsea to establish zoning districts within its corporate limits for the purpose of regulating the
kind, character, and use of structures and improvements within those zones, and to provide for the
administration, enforcement, and amendment thereof, and

WHEREAS the City of Chelsea deems it necessary, for the purpose of promoting the public health,
safety, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the city to enact such an ordinance, and
WHEREAS the city council has appointed the City of Chelsea Planning and Zoning Commission,
hereinafter referred to as the Planning Commission, to recommend the boundaries of the various zones
and the appropriate regulations to be enforced therein, and

WHEREAS the commission, with the assistance of the Regional Planning Commission of Greater
Birmingham, has amended this ordinance, originally enacted April 6, 1999, and accordingly the Zoning
Map thereto, has given due public notice of a hearing thereon, has held said Public Hearing and has
submitted its final report to the city council, and

WHEREAS the city council has given due public notice of a second hearing related to the adoption of
the amended Zoning Ordinance, setting forth zones, regulations and restrictions, and has held said
public hearing, and

WHEREAS all requirements of Sections 77 and 79 of Title 11, Chapter 52, Article 4 of the Code of
Alabama, 1975, as amended, with regard to the preparation of the report by the Planning Commission
and subsequent action of the city council have been met;

NOW, THEREFORE, the public welfare requiring it, the City Council of the City of Chelsea, Alabama,
does hereby ordain and enact into law the following articles and Sections.

Section 1.1. Authority

An ordinance, in pursuance of the authority granted by section 11-52-70 of the Code of Alabama,
recompiled 1975, to provide for the establishment of zoning districts within the City of Chelsea,
Alabama; to regulate within such districts the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards and other open spaces, the
density of population and the use of buildings, structures, and land; and to provide methods of
administration of this ordinance and penalties for the violation thereof.

Section 1.2. Interpretation of Ordinance

In interpreting and applying the provisions of this ordinance, they shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of public health, safety, convenience, comfort, and the general
welfare. Where this ordinance imposes greater restrictions upon the use of a building or land or upon
the open spaces, yard area, or lot area, than are imposed or required by other ordinances, rules,
regulations, or permits, or by easement, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this ordinance
shall govern. Where any other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or any easements, covenants
or agreements impose greater restrictions upon the use of a building or upon the height, bulk or size of
a building or structure, or require larger open spaces, yard area or lot area than are required under the
regulations of this ordinance, such provisions shall govern.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -1-




Intentional Blank Page

City of Chelsea Zoning Code




Article 2. Introduction, Purpose, and Application

Section 2.1. Short Title

The public welfare requiring it, it is ordained by the City Council of the City of Chelsea, Alabama as
follows:

This ordinance shall be known as the "Zoning Ordinance of the City of Chelsea, Alabama," and the map
herein referred to, identified by the title "Zoning Map of the City of Chelsea, Alabama” shall be further
identified by the signature of the Mayor of the City of Chelsea. The Zoning Map of the City of Chelsea is
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance. Said zoning map shall zone only territory within the
corporate limits of the City of Chelsea. Such map is filed with the City of Chelsea. The map will remain
on file in the Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Office of the city for public inspection during
normal working hours.

Section 2.2. The Official Zoning Map

The boundaries of each zoning district are delineated on the Zoning Map(s) of the City of Chelsea,
Alabama, hereinafter referred to as the “Zoning Map”. Said map(s) and all notations, references,
revisions, certifications, and other information shown thereon shall be considered a part of this
ordinance and shall carry the same force and effect as if fully described therein. Said map(s) shall be
retained at the Chelsea City Hall in the GIS Office.

Section 2.3. Purpose

The zoning regulations and districts as set forth herein are made in accordance with the City of Chelsea
Master Plan to guide development in accordance with existing and future needs. The fundamental
purpose of this ordinance is to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare; to encourage
the use of lands and natural resources in the City of Chelsea in accordance with their character and
adaptability; to limit the improper use of land; to provide for the orderly development and growth of
the City of Chelsea; to reduce hazards to life and property; to establish the location, size and the
specific uses of dwellings, buildings, and structures which may hereafter be erected or altered; and to
establish the minimum open spaces and sanitary, safety, and protective measures that shall be
required for such buildings, dwellings, and structures; to avoid congestion on the public roads and
streets; to provide safety in traffic and vehicular parking; to facilitate the development of an adequate
system of transportation, education, recreation, sewage disposal, safe and sufficient water supply, and
other public requirements; to conserve life, property, and natural resources and the expenditure of
funds for public improvements and services to conform with the most advantageous uses of land,
resources and properties, for the general good and benefit to the people of the City of Chelsea.

Section 2.4. Methods

For the purposes herein before stated, the City of Chelsea is divided into zoning districts of such
number, shape, and area, and of such common unity of purpose, adaptability or use, which are deemed
most suitable to provide for the best general civic use; to protect the common rights and interests
within each district; preserve the general rights and interests of all; to promote wholesome, pleasing,
harmonious, and economic results in civic service, activities, and operations; and by further regulations
to limit the location, uses and occupancy of buildings, structures and land to be used for trade,
industry, residence, or other purposes, and also the location, height, bulk, occupancy, and uses of
buildings or other structures, including the ratio of lot occupancy and coverage, street setback lines,
sizes of yards, and other open spaces.

Section 2.5. Application of Regulations

No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building, structure, or part
thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in
conformity with all of the applicable regulations of this ordinance for the zone in which it is located
except as otherwise provided herein. All future development of land, buildings, and structures shall
further be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the city’s Subdivision Regulations and Design
and Construction Specifications.

All submittals required for City of Chelsea Zoning Ordinance 12-04-24-621, the City of Chelsea Zoning
Ordinance, shall be delivered to the City Clerk on the last workday of the month preceding the

City of Chelsea Zoning Code ~3-




© Planning and Zoning Commission meeting in which your action or request will be heard. (Approved CCC
9/15/2017)

Section 2.6. Zoning of Annexed Land

2.6.1. If, prior to annexation, the property is zoned into a use compatible with a use in Table 6-1 and
is compatible with surrounding uses, upon approval of the city council, the property will be annexed
into the city and retain its current zoning classification.

2.6.2. Property may be pre-zoned prior to annexation in accordance with §11-52-85 and §11-52-77 of
the Code of Alabama, 1975 and Article 15 of this ordinance.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code ade




Article 3. Terminology

Section 3.1. Generally
Certain words and terms are herein defined for purposes of interpreting this ordinance.

Section 3.2. Interpretation of Certain Words and Terms

Words used or defined in one tense shall include other tenses and derivative forms. Words used in the
singular number shall include the plural and words used in the plural number shall include the singular.
The word “building” shall include the word “structure”. The word “person” shall include a firm,
corporation, association, organization, trust, or partnership. The word “lot” shall include the meanings
of the words “plot”, “property”, and “parcel”. The word “shall” is mandatory. The word “may” is
permissive. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the feminine gender the masculine.

Section 3.3. Definitions

Except as defined herein or in the Subdivision Regulations of the City of Chelsea, Alabama, all other
words used in this ordinance shall have their customary dictionary definition.

Accessory Structure or Use. A subordinate structure or a portion of the main structure, the use of
which is incidental to the main use of the premises that does not contain provisions for sleeping,
cooking, and sanitation and is not intended for use as a dwelling unit. An accessory use is one that is
incidental to the main use of the premises.

Advertising. Sign copy intended to directly or indirectly promote the sale or use of a product, service,
commodity, entertainment, or real or personal property.

Animated Sign. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or create a special
effect or scene.

Agriculture. The tilling of soil, the raising of crops, forestry, horticulture and gardening, including the
keeping or raising of domestic animals, fowl, and riding horses, and including sale of crops, dairy, and
horticultural farm products incidental to the operation of a farm.

Alley. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
Apartment Building. See "Dwelling, Multiple".
Animal Equivalent Unit. One thousand (1,000) pounds of live weight of any animal.

Architectural Panels. Architectural panels are normally for steeper slope applications with a solid
substrate. Two other terms commonly used to _ describe architectural panels
are hydrostatic and hydrokinetic. (Approved CCC 9/05/2017)
Assisted Living Centers. See Independent Living Center

Auto Dismantling, Junk and Salvage Yard. An entity engaged in the business of acquiring or owning
junk or salvage automobiles, that is an entity engaged in the business of owning, possessing, handling,
directing, or controlling such automobiles for the purpose of reselling the junk or salvage automobiles
(in their entirety or as spare parts), or for the purpose of rebuilding, restoring, or crushing the junk or
salvage automobiles.

Bank or Chartered Institution Any federally and state chartered institution engaged in providing
banking or financial services to the public, such as a bank, savings and loan association, or credit
union. (Approved CCC 9/05/2017)

Bar. An establishment in which alcoholic beverages are served, primarily by the drink, and where food
or package liquors may also be served or sold.

Basement. A story having a part but not more than one-half of its height below grade. A basement is
counted as a story for the purpose of height regulations.

Banner. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is temporarily mounted to a pole, to two
poles, between two posts, a building or to a temporary frame by strings or cords at the corners or by
other temporary methods of mounting.

Bed and Breakfast Inn. A private owner-occupied residence providing accommodations for a charge to
the public with no more than 10 guest rooms for rent, breakfast only may be provided to the guests.
Bed and Breakfast establishments are exempt from the Rules for Construction, Maintenance, and

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -5-




Operation of Hotels (ADPH 420-3-11) and the Rules for Food Service Sanitation (ADPH 420-3-22).

Buffer Yard. A strip of land that is retained, planted, or constructed for the purpose of providing a
means of screening or separating incompatible land uses, promoting visual harmony, reducing noise,
diverting emissions, restricting passage, and enhancing the natural environment thereby providing for a
compatible mix of otherwise incompatible uses.

Building. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls designed or built for the support,
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.

Building, Height. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof
or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the average height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip,
and gambrel roofs.

Building Marker. Any sign indicating the name of a building, date of construction, and incidental
information, which is cut into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
Building Sign. A sign displayed upon or attached to any part of the exterior of a building, including
walls, windows, doors, parapets, marquees, and roof slopes of 45 degrees or steeper.

Business or Professional Office. A place where the administrative affairs of a business or profession is
conducted, such as the office of a law firm, real estate agency, insurance agency, architect,
secretarial services, the administrative staff of business or industry, and the like.

Canopy Sign. Any sign that is part of or attached to an awning, canopy or other fabric, plastic, or
structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a
canopy.

Car Wash. A commercial establishment engaged in washing or cleaning automobiles and light vehicles.
Cellar. That portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is wholly or partly below grade and
having more than one-half of its height below grade. A cellar is not counted as a story for the purpose
of height regulations.

Changeable Copy Sign. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or illustrations that can be
changed or rearranged without altering the face or surface of the sign. A sign on which the message
changes more than eight (8) times a day shall be considered an animated sign and not a changeable
copy sign. A sign on which the only copy that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of the
time and temperature shall be considered a "time and temperature" portion of the sign and not a
changeable copy sign.

Child Care Facility. A facility established for the care of children as defined in §38-7-2 of the Code of
Alabama, 1975. For the purposes of this ordinance, this definition includes the following:

Child Care Center. This includes facilities licensed as day care centers and nighttime centers in
accordance with §38-7-2 of the Code of Alabama, 1975. Day care centers and nighttime centers serve
more than twelve children.

Child Care Institution. This includes facilities licensed as group homes and childcare institutions in
accordance with §38-7-2 of the Code of Alabama, 1975. These facilities provide full-time care.

Clinic. A building or a portion of a building where patients are not lodged overnight but are admitted
for examination and treatment by a group of physicians or dentists practicing together.

Club, Private. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a corporation,
association, person or persons for a social, educational, or recreational purpose, but not primarily for
profit or to render a service that is customarily carried on as a business.

Community Center. Buildings arranged for community gathering for social, cultural or community
services purposes, including museums, galleries, community meeting rooms, community recreation
centers, libraries, YMCAs, YWCAs, and similar uses.

Commercially Developed Parcel. A parcel of property on which there is at least one (1) walled and
roofed structure used, or designed to be used, for other than residential or agricultural purposes.

Commercial Occupant. A commercial use, i.e., any use other than residential or agricultural.
Concentrated Animal Operation. A property with more than two (2) animal equivalent units per acre.
Condominium. Real estate, portions of which are designated for separate ownership and the remainder

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -6-




of which is designated for common ownership solely by the owners of those portions. Real estate is not
a condominium unless the undivided interests in the common elements are vested in the unit owners.

Convenience Store. A one story, retail store containing less than 2,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area that
is designed and stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, and other household supplies to customers
who purchase only a relatively few items (in contrast to a supermarket), including automotive fuel
service islands and single unit mechanical car washes.

Copy. The linguistic or graphic content of a sign.

Day Care Home. A licensed service operated from a dwelling by the resident, providing day care on a
regular basis to six or less persons.

District. See Zoning District.

Dwelling. Any building or portion thereof that is used for residential purposes.

Dwelling, Accessory. A secondary residence on a single lot, detached from the primary residence, that
contains provisions for sleeping, cooking, and sanitation.

Dwelling, Attached. Three or more adjoining dwelling units each of which is separated from the others
by one (1) or more walls, unpierced from ground to roof; also referred to as a townhome.

Dwelling, Multiple. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by five or more families and
containing multiple dwelling units.

Dwelling, Single-Family. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by one family.
Dwelling, Duplex. A single building designed with two dwelling units.
Dwelling, Fourplex. A single building designed with four dwelling units.

Dwelling Unit. One or more rooms located within a building and forming a single habitable unit with
facilities that are used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating purposes.

Dwelling, Upper Story. A dwelling in mixed-use buildings that is located on a floor level above a use of
another type (e.g., institutional, office, retail, or service, etc.).

Electric Sign. Any sign containing electric wiring.

Entertainment, Indoor. A commercial establishment providing spectator entertainment within an
enclosed building, including movie theaters, playhouses, and similar indoor facilities.

Entertainment, Outdoor. A commercial establishment providing spectator entertainment in open or
partially enclosed or screened facilities, including sports arenas and amusement parks.

Erect a Sign. To construct, reconstruct, build, relocate, raise, assemble, place, affix, attach, create,
paint, draw, or in any other way bring into being or establish a sign. It shall not include any of the
foregoing activities when performed incident to the change of message or routine maintenance.

Family. One or more persons occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit, all of whom
or all but two of whom are related to each other by birth, adoption, or marriage.

Farm. A ten acre or larger tract of land used for the production, keeping or maintenance, for sale or
for lease, of plants and animals useful to man, including the following farm activities:

e Forages and sod crops.

e Grains and seed crops.

e Dairy animals and products.

e Poultry, including egg production but excluding poultry processing.

e Livestock, such as beef cattle, sheep, goats, or any similar livestock, including the breeding
and grazing of such animals but excluding meat processing.

e Nursery operations involving the raising of plants, shrubs and trees for sale and transplantation
and including greenhouses and incidental sales of items customarily associated with a
nursery operation.

e Forestry operations involving the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries, the
gathering of forest products, or performing forest services, including temporary sawmills and
chippers for cutting timber growth on the same premises but excluding lumber yards, mills
and similar activities.

e Bees and apiary products.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -7-




e Fisheries, excluding fish and seafood processing.
e Fruits and vegetables of all kinds, including growing and harvesting of such fruits and
vegetables but excluding food processing.

Farm, Commercial. Agricultural use of property primarily for the purpose of generating income or as
the principal occupation of the resident(s) or user(s) thereof.

Farm, Hobby. Agricultural use of property from which generated income is incidental to the total
household income of the resident(s) thereof.

Farmer’s Market. A permanently-located, enclosed, or partially unenclosed facility for the sale of
fresh produce, including fruits, vegetables, plants and flowers and similar agricultural products, but
excluding livestock and poultry.

Floor Area. The gross horizontal areas of all floors, including penthouses (but excluding such areas
within a building which are used for parking) measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls of
a building. Basements and cellars shall not be included in the gross floor area.

Freestanding Sign. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are placed on or anchored in the
ground and that are independent from any building or other structure.

Frontage. The length of the property line of any one parcel along a street on which it borders.
Frontage, Lot. That portion of a lot extending along a street line.
Fowl. Winged animals or livestock including chickens, geese, ducks, exotic birds, etc.

Fowl House. An enclosed or partially enclosed agricultural structure used for the keeping and raising of
two or more chickens or other fowl.

Fowl Pen. A small, partially enclosed structure used for the keeping of no more than one chicken or
other fowl.

Funeral Home. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial and the display of the
deceased and rituals connected therewith before burial or cremation.

Garage, Private. An accessory building designed or used for the storage of motor-driven vehicles
owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is accessory.

Garage, Public. A building or portion thereof, other than a private, storage, or parking garage,
designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring, selling, or storing of motor-driven vehicles,
but not including the storage of wrecked or junked vehicles.

Garage, Storage or Parking. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for storage of
motor-driven vehicles, and within which motor fuels and oils may be sold, but no vehicles are
equipped, repaired, hired or sold.

Garden Center or Nursery. Retail sales of plants, trees, shrubs, and the like for ornamental or
landscaping purposes, conducted from a building, greenhouse, outdoor display area, or stand, including
incidental sales of items customarily associated with such sales activities, including such items as
containers, fertilizers, ornaments, small gardening tools and equipment, and seeds.

General Retail, Enclosed. Retail sales of goods and services, not otherwise defined by this section,
conducted within an enclosed building, including, but not limited to food sales, department stores,
clothing stores, home furnishings sales, appliance stores, gift shops, specialty stores, jewelry stores,
cosmetics sales, tobacco stores, drug stores, variety stores, and similar retail businesses.

Grade. The average level of the finished ground surface adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.

Group Home. A dwelling shared as a residence by persons who reside together as a single housekeeping
unit, in which staff persons may provide supervision, counseling, treatment or therapy for the residents
therein, and which may be licensed by, certified by, registered with, or otherwise authorized, funded
or regulated, in whole or in part, by an agency of the state or federal government. The term shall
include adult care homes, homes for the chronically mentally ill, homes for abused women or children,
group care agencies, and similar residential living arrangements for handicapped persons, but shall not
include boarding houses, homes for the developmentally disabled, nursing homes, substance abuse
treatment facilities, or any facility providing treatment, counseling, or therapy to patients or clients
who do not reside on the premises.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -8-




Group Home, communal. Residence which houses individuals who are unrelated such as fraternity
houses, non-profit ministries for various social problems which are not drug or alcohol related, and (a
house used by multiple members of a family on a rotating schedule.)

Health Care Facility. A facility, whether public or private, principally engaged in providing services for
health maintenance and the treatment of mental or physical conditions.

Health Club. An establishment that provides facilities for aerobic exercises, running and jogging,
exercise equipment, game courts, swimming facilities and saunas, showers, massage room and lockers.

Home Improvement Center. A place of business providing building, appliance, yard and garden
materials, tools, and supplies at retail and wholesale.

Home Occupation. Any occupation or activity which is clearly incidental to use of the premises for
dwelling purposes and which is carried on wholly within a main building or accessory building by a
member of a family residing on the premises, in connection with which there is no advertising and no
display or storage of materials or exterior identification of the home occupation or variation from the
residential character of the premises and in connection with which no person outside the family is
employed and no equipment used other than that normally used in connection with a residence. A
home occupation shall not include beauty parlors, barbershops, and doctors’ or dentists’ offices for the
treatment of patients.

Home Occupation, Minor. A home occupation which:

e Has no exterior evidence of the home occupation.

e Does not generate traffic in excess of 20 trips in one (1) day in addition to trips generated by
the residence. (A "trip" is a vehicle traveling in one direction to or from a source. In other
words, 20 trips equal 10 round trips).

e Does not create a need for off-street parking beyond normal dwelling needs; and

e Is operated by and employs family members residing on the premises of the home occupation.

Home Occupation, Major. A home occupation which:

e Has no exterior evidence of the home occupation with the exception of signs permitted by this
ordinance.
els conducted within a single-family dwelling including a single family detached dwelling, a
single family semi-detached dwelling, or a single family attached dwelling.
e Accommodates the off-street parking needs of both the dwelling and home occupation.
e Involves or employs no more than one (1) person who is not a family member residing on the
premises in the operation of the home occupation.
Hotel. A building which provides and offers to the public for compensation lodging, or boarding and
lodging and in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms are made through an inside lobby or
office supervised by a person in charge at all hours.

Household Pet. A household pet is any domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility or
profit which is normally kept within a residence. Household pets include, but are not limited to, dogs,
cats, fish, gerbils, hamsters, parakeets, parrots, cockatiels, tropical fish, parakeets, and similar small
household pets, not raised for commercial purposes and normally kept indoors.

Illuminated Sign. A sign which contains a source of light or which is designed to reflect light from an
artificial source including indirect lighting, neon, incandescent lights, back-lighting, and shall include
signs with reflectors that depend upon automobile headlights for an image.

Impervious Surface. Any hard surfaced, man-made area that does not readily absorb or retain water,
including but not limited to building roofs, parking areas, sidewalks and paved recreational facilities.

Impervious Surface Ratio (ISR). The total area of impervious surfaces divided by the net area
(excluding right-of-way) of the lot.

Independent Living Facility. A facility where residents live in private units and receive assistance with
limited aspects of personal care, such as: taking medication, bathing, or dressing. Meals are provided
multiple times daily in a common dining area. Staff is on duty 24-hours per day to ensure the welfare
and safety of residents. This definition does not include: convalescent centers, congregate residences,
boarding and lodging houses, adult family homes, and group homes. (Variant: Assisted Living Centers)

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -9-




Institution. The structure or land occupied by a group, cooperative, board, agency, or organization
created for the purpose of carrying on non-profit functions of a public or semi-public nature, including
but not limited to hospitals, schools, churches, fraternal orders, and also including residential
accessory uses, such as rectories, parsonages, dormitories and dwellings for resident administrators,
watchmen, custodians or caretakers.

Industrial. Land uses other than agricultural, residential, retail and institutional or as defined within
these regulations.

Kennel. Any place in or at which any number of dogs or cats or household pets are kept for the purpose
of sale or in connection with boarding care or breeding for which a fee is charged.

eFor the purpose of this ordinance, a kennel will be considered as any combination of
structures, pens, areas or enclosures, covered or uncovered, open or enclosed where dogs or
cats are kept as an accessory or ancillary use. The following interpretation notes are added
for clarification.

e The definition of a kennel does not include the keeping of pets accessory to a dwelling in any
zoning district.

e The definition of a kennel shall not include a dog house.

e The definition of a kennel does not include the keeping, breeding, raising, showing, or training
of dogs or cats for the personal enjoyment of the owner or occupants of the property for
which commercial gain is not the primary objective.

e Kennels may be further restricted through the use of restrictive covenants. The City of Chelsea
does not enforce such covenants.

e The definition of a kennel shall apply to animal hospitals, clinics, boarding facilities or other
similar uses in business, industrial, and agricultural districts.

Livestock. Animals of any kind, including fish and fowl, kept, bred or raised for commercial or other
purposes, excluding house pets such as domestic cats and dogs, fish, fowl, and other similar animals
kept for personal pleasure in accordance with regulations of the Health Department and applicable
animal control authority of Shelby County.

Loading Space. A space having a minimum dimension of 12 by 35 feet and a vertical clearance of at
least 14 feet within the main building or on the same lot, providing for the standing, loading, or
unloading of trucks.

Lodge. The place where members of a local chapter of an association or a fraternal, cultural, or
religious organization hold their meetings.; the local chapter itself.

Lot. Land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use including the yards and parking spaces required
therein and having its principal frontage upon a street.

Lot, Area. The total horizontal area included within the lot lines of the lot. No public right-of-way or
access easement for a public street or handle of a panhandle lot shall be included in the calculation of
the lot area.

Lot, Corner. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, Through. A lot other than a corner lot abutting two streets.

Lot of Record. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in the Office of
the Probate Judge of Shelby County, Alabama, or a parcel of land described by metes and bounds, the
plat of which has been recorded in said office. If a portion of a lot or parcel has been conveyed at the
time of the adoption of this ordinance, the remaining portion of said lot or parcel shall be considered a
lot of record.

Lot Width. The width of the lot at the front building setback line.

Manufacturing. The basic processing and fabricating of materials or products predominately from
extracted or raw materials and the incidental storage sales, and distribution of such products.

Metal Composite Material (MCM). Metal Composite Materials panels formed by continuously bonding
two thin skins of aluminum (or other metal) under tension to both sides of a thermoplastic core
creating a "sandwich" panel. (Approved CCC 9/05/2017)

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 10-




Mini-Warehouse. A building or group of buildings containing separate storage spaces which are leased
on an individual basis for the exclusive purpose of storing non-hazardous household goods, but not
including the storage of materials for a commercial or industrial enterprise or for any activity other
than dead storage.

Manufacturing. The mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances into new
products, including the assembling of component parts, or the blending of materials such as lubricating
oils, plastic resins, or liquors. This definition does not include harvesting of crops or hay.

Manufactured Home. A structure transportable in one or more sections which meets the following
criteria: meets the minimum size requirements of a single family dwelling, is built on a permanent
chassis designed to be used as a dwelling with a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, including plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. Such
term shall include structures meeting all the requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer
voluntarily files a certification required by Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1976.

Manufactured Home Park. An area containing 10 or more manufactured homes used as living facilities,
or an area containing 10 or more spaces designed or intended for parking of mobile homes to be used
as living facilities.

Marquee. A structure projecting from and supported by a building which extends beyond the building
line or property line and fully or partially covers a sidewalk, public entrance, or other pedestrian way.

Mobile Home. A detached unit for commercial, residential, or industrial purposes designed for
transportation on streets or highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers and arriving at
the site where it is to be occupied complete and ready for occupancy or use except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly separations, foundations, connections to utilities, and the like. A
travel trailer is not to be considered as a mobile home.

Modular Home. A factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be
incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for
residential purposes and which bears a seal of compliance with the regulations of the Alabama
Manufactured Housing Commission.

Monument Sign. A monument sign is a freestanding sign, a wall with a sign permanently attached, or a
decorative wall that incorporates a sign. Monument signs are typically constructed low to the ground
from natural materials such as stone, brick, or wood and surrounded with additional landscape
plantings. A monument sign shall be no more than 10 feet in height except where further restricted
and shall have the lowest portion of its sign face no more than three (3) feet above the ground.

Motel. A building or group of buildings containing guest rooms or dwelling units, some or all of which
have a separate entrance leading directly from the outside of the building with garage or parking space
located on the lot and designed, used, or intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of
automobile transients. Motel includes motor courts, motor lodges and tourist courts, but not mobile
home parks or travel trailer parks.

Multiple Occupancy Complex. A parcel of property or parcels of contiguous properties, existing as a
unified or coordinated project, with a building or buildings housing more than one occupant.

Nonconforming Use. The use of any building or land which was lawful at the time of passage of this
ordinance or amendment thereto; but which use does not conform, after the passage of this ordinance
or amendment thereto, with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.

Non-Chartered Financial Institution. Any business, other than a federally and state chartered
institution, bank, credit union, mortgage lender or savings and loan association that offers check
cashing services, automobile title loans, and loans for payment of a percentage or graduated fee.
Specifically included are check cashing and pawn shop businesses that charge a percentage or
graduated fee for cashing a check or negotiable instrument and "payday loan" businesses which make
loans upon assignment of wages received or businesses that function as deferred presentment services.
(Approved CCC 9/05/2017)

Nursing Home. A home for the aged or infirm in which three or more persons not of the immediate

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -11-




family are received, kept, provided with food, shelter, or care for compensation; but not including
hospitals, clinics, or similar establishments devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of the sick
or injured.

Office. A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a business, profession, service,
industry or government and generally furnished with desks, tables, files and communication
equipment.

Office Building. A building used primarily for conducting the affairs of a business, profession, service,
industry, or government. It may contain ancillary service for office workers, such as a restaurant,
coffee shop, newspaper stand, and child care facilities.

Office Park. A development on a tract of land that contains a number of office buildings, and accessory
or supporting uses on an integrated and coordinated basis.

Office, Professional. The office of a member of a recognized profession maintained for the conduct of
that profession.

Parcel. A unit of land within legally established property lines. If, however, the property lines are such
as to defeat the purposes of these regulations or lead to absurd results, a "parcel" may be as
designated for a particular site by the Planning Commission.

Parking Lot. An open area used exclusively for the temporary storage of motor vehicles and within
which motor fuels and oils may be sold and fees charged, but no vehicles are to be equipped, repaired,
rented or sold.

Parking Space, Off-Street. An accessible space permanently reserved for the temporary storage of one
vehicle, connected with a street by a driveway or an alley, having a minimum area of not less than 200
sq. ft., a minimum width of 10 feet, and a minimum length of 20 feet, exclusive of driveways and
maneuvering area.

Pawn Shop. A commercial establishment in which the general public can “pawn” or leave certain items
with the management to hold for a specific period for which the patron receives payment. The patron
may choose to return, at or before the designated date, to purchase the held item or fail to return to
claim it. Such establishments then have the authority to display such items for sale to the general
public at a price management chooses to specify. Such establishments may also negotiate a purchase
price for an item or items with the understanding that the item or items are subject to the immediate
display for the purpose of sale to the general public. In certain cases, these types of establishments
may also engage in accepting motor vehicle titles for a mutually agreed upon price.

Pennant. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether containing a message or not,
suspended from a rope, wire, string, or other similar device, designed to move in the wind.

Place of Worship. Building(s) arranged for religious service purposes, such as churches and synagogues,
including related facilities for instruction, meeting, recreation, lodging, eating, and other integrally-
related activities.

Political Campaign Sign. A small, free-standing campaign sign used during the time preceding an
election.

Portable Sign. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure or a sign
designed to be transported, including, but not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of
wheels; signs converted to A-frames or T-frames; menu or sandwich board signs; balloons or other
inflatable devices used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on
vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless such vehicle is used in the normal day
to day operations of the business.

Premises. A lot, together with all buildings and structures existing thereon.

Projecting Sign. A sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner that its leading edge extends
more than six (6) inches beyond the surface of the building or wall.

Public Facility. Building(s) arranged for the purpose of providing public services, not otherwise listed
in this section, including government offices, post offices, transit stations, police stations, fire and
emergency service stations, civil defense operations, and similar uses.

Recreation, Indoor. A commercial establishment providing recreational or sports activities to

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -12-




participants within an enclosed building, including bowling alleys, billiard parlors, video game centers,
fitness centers, ice and roller skating rinks, and other commercial indoor recreational and sports
activities.

Recreation, Outdoor. This land use includes areas where outdoor recreational activities are the
primary use such as public parks or other recreational areas whether public or private. Activities may
include picnicking, jogging, cycling, arboretums, hiking, golf courses, miniature golf courses, golf
driving ranges, playgrounds, ball fields, outdoor ball courts, stables, outdoor swimming pools, and
water-related or water-dependent uses such as boat ramps, fishing docks and piers, and similar outdoor
recreational uses. Specifically excluded from this group of uses are firing ranges, marinas, racetracks,
and similar commercial recreational or quasi-recreational activities inconsistent with the allowable
outdoor recreation uses described.

Restaurant, Fast Food. An establishment whose principal business is the sale of food and beverages in
a ready to consume state for consumption within the restaurant building, within a motor vehicle
parked on the premises or off the premises as a carry-out order, and whose principal method of
operation includes serving food and beverages in paper, plastic, or other disposable containers.

Restaurant, Standard. An establishment whose principal business is the sale of food and beverages in a
ready to consume state and whose principal method of operation includes one or more of the following
characteristics: customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are served their food and
beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or counter at which food and beverages are
consumed; a cafeteria type operation where food and beverages are generally consumed within the
restaurant building. Such restaurants may have carryout services.

Roof Line. A horizontal line intersecting the highest point or points of a roof.
School. Public, private, or non-profit education-related establishment.

Service Station. Any building, structure, or land used primarily for the dispensing, sale, or offering for
sale at retail of any automobile fuels, oils, or accessories and single unit car washes; but not including
major repair work such as motor overhaul, body and fender repair, or spray painting.

Shopping Center. A group of commercial establishments planned and developed in a unified design
with shared parking, landscaping, driveway facilities, and under common management authority.

Sign. Any writing, pictorial presentation, number, illustration, decoration, flag, banner, pennant, or
other device which is used to announce, direct attention to, identify, advertise, or otherwise make
anything known. The term sign shall not be deemed to include the terms “building” or “landscaping” or
any architectural embellishment of a building not intended to communicate information.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 13 -




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sign Face Area. The area of any regular geometric shape which contains the entire surface area of a
sign upon which copy may be placed.

Sign Structure. Any construction used or designed to support a sign.

Story. That portion of a building other than a cellar, included between the surface of any floor and the
surface of the floor next above it, or, if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor
and the ceiling next above it.

Story, Half. A space under a sloping roof, which has the line of intersection of roof decking and wall
face not more than three (3) feet above the top floor level and in which space not more than two
thirds (2/3) of the floor area is finished-off for use. A half-story containing independent apartment or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.

Street. A public or private right of way for vehicular traffic including highways, thoroughfares, lanes,
roads, ways, and boulevards.

Street Line. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous street.

Structural Alterations. Any change in the supporting members of a building or structure, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders; provided, however, that the application of any exterior
siding to an existing building for the purpose of beautifying and modernizing shall not be considered a
structural alteration.

Structural Panel. Structural panels are commonly applied to low slope applications over open framing.
(Approved CCC 9/05/2017)

Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which required a location on the ground, or
attached to something having a location on the ground, including but not limited to buildings, signs,
billboards, back stops for tennis courts, fences, or radio towers.

Trailer, House. See Mobile Home or Manufactured Home.

Trailer, Travel. A trailer designed primarily for transport under its own power or by passenger vehicles
and providing temporary living quarters.

Transportation, Communications, and Utility. This group of activities includes those uses which
provide essential or important public services and which may have characteristics of outdoor storage,

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 14-




or potential nuisance to adjacent properties due to noise, light and glare, or appearance. Uses include
the following and substantially similar activities based upon similarity of characteristics:

e Emergency service activities such as buildings, garages, parking, and/or dispatch centers for
ambulances, fire, police, and rescue.
e Utility facilities, such as water plants, wastewater treatment plants, and electric power
substations.

Unit. That part of a multiple occupancy complex that is one living unit.
Vehicle Sales or Rental. A commercial establishment engaged in the sale or rental of automobiles,
light trucks, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, boats, and motorcycles. Such an establishment may
include incidental parking, storage, maintenance, and servicing.
Vehicle Sign. Any sign affixed to a vehicle.
Warehousing, Distribution. A place of business engaged in warehousing, wholesaling, retailing, or
distribution services within a building. Site may also include a city sales desk secondary to the primary
activity.
Window Sign. Any sign, picture, symbol, or combination thereof designed to communicate information
about a business, commodity, event, sale, or service that is placed inside or upon a window and is
visible from the exterior of the window.
Wireless Telecommunications Facility. A facility that transmits and/or receives electromagnetic
signals. It includes antennas, microwave dishes, horns, and other types of equipment for the
transmission or receipt of such signals, telecommunications towers, broadcasting towers, radio towers,
television towers, telephone transmission towers, or similar structures supporting said equipment,
equipment buildings, access roads, parking area, access roads, and other accessory structures.
Xeriscape. A style of landscape design requiring little or no irrigation or other maintenance.
Yard. An open space between a building or use and the adjoining lot lines, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any structure or use from the ground upward. In measuring a yard for the purpose of
determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard, or the depth of a rear yard, the
minimum distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used. A required yard shall mean
a yard the depth of which is specified in the "Area and Dimensional Regulations” pertaining to the
district in which such yard is required to be provided.
Yard, Front. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side lot lines. On corner lots, the
front yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
Yard, Rear. A yard extending across the rear of a lot between the side lot lines. On all lots, the rear
yard shall be in the rear of the front yard.
Yard, Side. A yard between the main building and the side lot line and extending from the required
front yard to the required rear yard.
Zoning District. A section or sections of City of Chelsea for which the zoning regulations governing the
use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size of yards, and the intensity of use are
uniform.
Zoning Map. The map referred to in Article 2, of this ordinance.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -15-




City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Intentional Blank Page

-16-




Article 4. Zoning Districts and Boundaries

Section 4.1. Establishment of Districts

In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this ordinance, the City of Chelsea is hereby divided
into the following districts; the location, boundaries, and area of which are and shall be as shown and
depicted upon the zoning map:

A-R Agricultural-Residential District
R-R Rural Residential

1 Single-Family Estate District

1 Single-Family District
-2 Single-Family District

I Office and Institutional District
1 Neighborhood Business District
2 General Business District
M-1 Light Industrial District
SCD Smart Code District (See Smart Code, Article 8)
PRD Planned Residential District
PMD Planned Mixed Use District

Section 4.2. Zoning Map

The map or maps which are identified by the title "Zoning Map of the City of Chelsea", and which,
together with the legends, words, figures, letters, symbols, and explanatory matter thereon, is hereby
declared to be a part of this ordinance and shall be known as the "zoning map" throughout this
ordinance.

Section 4.3. District Boundaries

The district boundary lines on the zoning map are intended to follow either natural boundaries, streets
or alleys or lot lines, and where the districts designated on said map are bounded approximately by
such streets, alley or lot lines, the center line of the street or alley or the lot lines shall be the
boundary of the district unless such boundary is otherwise indicated on the map. In all other cases, the
district boundary lines shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the zone map. Questions
about interpretation of zoning district boundaries will be resolved by the Planning Commission.

Section 4.4. Annexed Property

Pre-zoning property prior to annexation is permitted in accordance with §2.6.2 of this ordinance and
§11-52-85 of the State Code of Alabama, 1975. Request shall follow the process for rezoning property
contained in this ordinance but may be carried out prior to annexation.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -17-




City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Intentional Blank Page

- 18 -




Article 5. General Regulations

Section 5.1. Generally
The general regulations contained in this article shall apply in all districts except as specifically
provided for in Articles 7 and 8.

Section 5.2. Use of Land
No land shall be used except for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, except growing of
agricultural crops in the open will be permitted in any district.

Section 5.3. Use of Structures

No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, nor
shall any building or structure be used, except for a use permitted in the district in which such building
is located.

Section 5.4. Nonconforming Uses

Any condition with, or on property, which is “non-conforming” under the original, or prior revisions, of
either the Shelby County Planning and Zoning Regulations or the City of Chelsea Planning and Zoning
Regulations shall remain “non-conforming” under any subsequent revision of the City of Chelsea
Planning and Zoning Regulations unless expressly allowed in any revised City of Chelsea Planning and
Zoning Regulation.

Section 5.5. Height of Structures

No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered to
exceed the height limit herein established for the district in which such structure is located except as
may be otherwise provided in these regulations.

Section 5.6. Dimensional Regulations
€: No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered
except in conformity with the dimensional regulations of the district in which such structure is located.

Section 5.7. Building Materials Standards

5.7.1. Purpose

A. To allow flexibility and variety in architectural style, design, and function, while maintaining and
promoting overall consistency of all of the buildings collectively in the City of Chelsea, and to prevent
unsightly and detrimental development within the community, and to preserve the general character
and aesthetic quality of the city and promote a positive city image which reflects order, harmony, and
pride.

B. Regulate the building materials used in the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or
repair of buildings and structures within the City of Chelsea. This standard shall be applied to all
structures permitted following the adoption of Ordinance No.12-04-24-621. Approval of building
materials for remodeling or additions to any structures that existed prior to the enactment of
Ordinance No.12-04-24-621shall be at the discretion of the code enforcement officer with the approval
of the Board of Zoning Adjustment.

Approval of building materials for new construction in subdivisions that were platted and approved
prior to the enactment of Ordinance No.12-04-24-621 shall be at the discretion of the code
enforcement officer with the approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment.

This requirement shall apply to any accessory dwellings, whether attached to the principal dwelling or
not.

C. This section shall affect only new construction and will not operate retroactively.
5.7.2. Scope

A. This article is not intended to supersede or supplant established building and fire code regulations
or regulate the quality, durability, maintenance, performance, load capacity, or fire resistance
© characteristics, or workmanship of building materials.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -19-




B. The provisions of the article shall apply to all new structures in all districts.

5.7.3. Standards

A. All buildings shall have one primary material and no more than three secondary or accent trim
materials. The coverage calculation does not include doors or windows. Ranges for materials are
defined by district type.

B. Material changes other than trim shall only occur at inside corners in association with a massing
element or at a horizontal architectural detail.

C. All sides of a building shall be complementary in design, details, and materials. Where a side or
rear facade is visible from a public street or if parking is located at the side or rear of a building, the
facade shall include windows, building materials, and architectural features similar to those present on
the front facade of the building.

5.7.4. Material Standards by District
The regulations of this section are based upon the zoning district in which a structure is located. The
percentages indicate the maximum material allocations for overall building materials

 

  
    

Siding or Wood Clapboard 100% 100% 100% 0%
Shingles 0: e
Vinyl Siding. 100% 30% 30% 30%
Conforming to the
standards of
product

certification ASTM
D6864 and color
standards ASTM
D3679 or ASTM
D7251 or the most
currently adopted
or revised standard
by the American
Society for Testing
and Materials
(ASTM), and

material that is no
less than 0.044
inches thick
(whether or not
foam backed)

   
 

Fiber Cement 100% 100% 100% 100%
Siding

   

Jumbo or Utility
Brick (Utility brick

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -20-




 

 

  
  
  
  
  
 

 

is larger than
_ standard brick
(typical utility
brick = 3 5/8
inches x 11 5/8
__ inches)

 
 
       

Finished
_ (Burnished Block,
Split Faced
Concrete Masonry
Units or
Architecturally

__ Finished Tilt wall)

Stone 100% 100% 100% 100%

_ Hard Coated EEPS
(Expanded
Polystyrene)
_ plaster or similar
_ polyurea hard-
coated foam

| ~Xmaterials
Supplemental Metal Siding 0% 25% 25% 75%
Building
Materials.
See § 9.39
(Approved CCC Metal Composite 0% 25% 25% 75%
Siete) Material (MCM)
Architectural 0% 25% 25% 75%
Panels
Structural Panels 0% 25% 25% 75%

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -21-




Section 5.8. Encroachment on or Reduction of Open Spaces

The minimum yards, parking spaces, and open space required by this ordinance for each structure
existing at the time of passage of this ordinance, or for any structure hereafter erected or structurally
altered, shall not be encroached upon or considered as part of the yard or parking space or open space
required for any other structure, nor shall any lot area be reduced below the lot area per family
requirements of this ordinance for the district in which such lot is located.

Section 5.9. Off-Street Parking and Loading
No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or moved except in conformity with
the off-street parking and loading regulations of this ordinance.

Section 5.10. Building to be on Lots
Every building hereafter erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered
shall be located on a lot as herein defined.

Section 5.11. Accessory Buildings
No accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes except as specified in Article 9.

Section 5.12. Main Building on One Lot
More than one main building may be erected on one lot if the dimensional regulations for each
structure or use are met.

Section 5.13. Joint Occupancy
No structure shall be erected, structurally altered for, or used as a single-family or two-family dwelling
simultaneously with any other use unless specifically permitted by the code.

Section 5.14. Building Material Storage

Building materials or temporary structures for construction purposes shall not be placed or stored on
any lot or parcel of land located in an Agricultural, Residential, or Business Zone District for more than
one (1) month prior to the commencement of construction.

Section 5.15. Parking or Storage of Major Recreational Vehicles

Major recreational vehicles including houseboats, travel trailers, pick-up campers, motorized
dwellings, tent trailers, and other like vehicles shall not be stored or parked on any required front yard
on any lot in a residential district for more than seven (7) days.

Section 5.16. Parking and Storage of Certain Vehicles

5.16.1. Automotive vehicles without current license plates shall not be parked or stored on any
residentially zoned property other than in completely enclosed buildings.

5.16.2. Commercial vehicles exceeding 10,000 lbs. G.V.W. and construction vehicles shall not be
parked or stored in recorded residential subdivisions.

Section 5.17. Lot Width at Street Line
All lots shall have access to a public street. On any irregularly shaped lots, the lot width at the building
line shall be no less than the minimum lot width required by the applicable zone.

Section 5.18. Home Repair and Remodeling
All home remodeling, repair, and modification shall be permitted provided that the minimum yard
requirements are met for the district involved.

Section 5.19. Keeping of Animals

The keeping of household pets shall be permitted in any district provided that compliance with all
applicable laws and state and county health regulations are maintained.

Section 5.20. MRé j eping o c|

A. Bsn setback of agriculeural's structures shall be:

Livestock barns 100 ft. from adjoining lot lines, 100 ft. from nearest thoroughfare rights-of-way, 120
ft. from the nearest existing residence on any adjoining property.

\Fowl houses - 150 ft. from adjoining Lot Lines, 300 ft. from nearest thoroughfare rights-of-way, 300 ft.
from the nearest existing residence on any adjoining property.

 

 

 

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -22-




Fowl pens shall not be located within any required yard.

€ Swine shall not be housed, fed, and/or watered within 100 ft. of any adjoining lot line or within 300
ft. of any thoroughfare right-of-way.

B. The maximum number of animals permitted on one (1) property in an E-1 or R-R Zone shall be:

One (1) animal equivalent unit, as determined by the following assignment of animal equivalent units,
for the first “net” acre, which excludes required setbacks and developed and impervious surface
areas. A maximum of one animal equivalent unit shall be allowed for each additional net acre. No
more than 20 individual animals per property shall be permitted. Keeping of livestock in quantities
greater than provided herein shall be permitted only in an A-R Zones.

 

 

Animal Equivalent Units

     

 

 

i
cow = 1 unit goat = 0.5 units
swine = 0.5 | rabbit = 0.1 units
units

 

 

 

 

 

The planning commission as needed shall determine equivalents for animals not listed. Offspring shall
not be counted until they are weaned. Animals, which are not weaned, shall be counted when they
reach half their adult weight based on industry standards.

C. Piles of feed or bedding shall be located no closer than 50 feet from a public thoroughfare right-of-
way line, lot line, or zoning district boundary to minimize odor and nuisance problems.

D. Manure shall be stored for removal and disposed of in accord with all applicable county, state, and
federal regulations. No manure piles shall be located closer than 50 feet from a public thoroughfare
right-of-way, lot line, zoning district boundary, wetland, watercourse, or other water body.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 23 -




City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Intentional Blank Page

-24-




Article 6. Regulations by Districts

Section 6.1. Introduction
The purpose of the regulations in this article is to allow maximum utilization of land while insuring
against detrimental impacts on the environment, neighboring properties, and the public interest. This
insurance is provided by separating the incorporated area of the City of Chelsea into zoning districts
and permitting specified uses within each district, if the use meets all criteria specified in this
ordinance. All permitted, supplemental, special exception and non-permitted uses for all districts are
shown in Table 6-1. All setbacks, height restrictions, and minimum lot size and width are useful tools in
zoning to help maintain standards and are in Table 6-2. All buffer requirements between uses are in

Table 6.3

Section 6.2. Zoning District Intent

   

E-1

R-1

B-1

B-2

M-1

PRD

Agricultural-
Residential

Rural Residential

Single-Family Estate
District

Single-Family District

Single-Family District

Office and
Institutional District

Neighborhood
Business District

General Business
District
Light Industrial

District

Planned Residential
District

City of Chelsea Zoning Code

A district intended for larger lot

    

or land areas on which the primary use
is agricultural in nature and ordinarily used for generating profit.
Residential is a permitted activity.

A district intended exclusively for single lots of record that existed prior
to the adoption of this ordinance. It is for single-family rural residential
neighborhoods and homes that existed at the time of Chelsea’s
incorporation. The intent is to accommodate, facilitate, and maintain
the existing rural residential character.

A district intended for single-family residential neighborhoods. Its intent
is to facilitate and maintain the development of a spacious
neighborhood environment through larger lots and setbacks and with
approved accessory structures.

A district intended exclusively for single-family residential
neighborhoods and to facilitate and maintain development of a more
spacious neighborhood environment generally through larger lot, yard,
and house size requirements.

A district intended exclusively for single-family residential
neighborhoods. Its intent is to facilitate the development of
neighborhood environments characterized by a higher density.

A district intended for the development of land for private, non-profit,
public, and semi-public uses and services and similar institutional
facilities or functions. Generally this includes office, schools, churches,
hospitals, and public facilities.

A district intended for limited, small-scale commercial businesses and
offices that, by the nature of such operations, are compatible with and
serve the daily needs of surrounding neighborhoods and that provide
convenient access for pedestrians and bicyclists.

A district intended for automotive-related businesses and businesses
offering retail and services catering to the needs of, and in locations
convenient to, commuters and long-distance travelers.

A district providing for industrial uses that are determined to be least
offensive or detrimental to adjoining properties in terms of health,
safety, comfort, aesthetics, and in the general welfare of, and overall
compatibility with, the surrounding area.

A district intended to provide flexibility of design, types, and densities
for a residential neighborhood with some commercial development. To
be considered for PRD zoning, the minimum acreage required is 20
acres. The base-zoning district shall determine which planned
development district type is applicable. If the base-zoning district is

- 25 -

 
 




-R, R- R, E-1, R-1, R y.
PMD Planned Mixed Use A district intended to provide flexibility of design and types and
District densities for commercial mixed-use developments. The minimum
acreage required to be considered for PMD zoning is 5 acres.
The base-zoning district shall determine which planned development
district type is applicable. If the base-zoning district is O-!, B-1, B-2, or
M-1, then the PMD shall apply.

   
 

Section 6.3. Permitted, Supplemental, & Special Exception Uses, and Uses Not Permitted

In each district, only the uses specifically listed as “Permitted Uses”, “Uses Permitted Subject to
Supplemental Use Regulations”, or “Special Exception Uses” shall be allowed. “Uses Permitted Subject
to Supplemental Use Regulations” shall be allowed with approval of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and only in conformance with the requirements of the standards specified for such uses in
Article 9. “Special Exception Uses” are exceptions for which no permit shall be issued except with
written approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment, and which shall further be subject to such
conditions as said Board may require to preserve and protect the character of the district concerned,
including any applicable Supplemental Use Regulations as referenced in Article 9. Any use or structure
existing at the time of enactment or subsequent amendment of this ordinance but not in compliance
with its provisions shall hereafter be considered a “nonconforming use,” and shall be subject to the
stipulations, regulations, and other provisions set forth in Article 9 of this ordinance. Except as
otherwise provided by law or in this ordinance, no building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied
except in the zoning districts indicated and for the purposes permitted in this section. (Approved CCC
9/15/2017)

6.3.1. A use in Table 6-1 in any district denoted by the letter “Y” is a use permitted by right, if all

other requirements of state law and this ordinance have been met and if a zoning certificate has been

issued in accordance with Article 16.

6.3.2. A use listed in Table 6-1 may be permitted as a supplemental use in any district denoted by
the letter “S” if the requirements of Article 9 have been met.

6.3.3. A use listed in Table 6-1 may be permitted as a special exception use in any district denoted
by the letter “X” if the requirements of Article 9 have been met.

6.3.4. A use listed in Table 6-1 is not permitted in a district when denoted by the letter “N”.

Section 6.4. Use Limitations

Although a use may be permitted according to specified procedures in a particular district, such use
may not necessarily be permitted on every parcel of land in the district. A use may be permitted only if
it can meet all the standards of this ordinance and other applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.

Section 6.5. Classification of Uses

This ordinance recognizes the limitations of a finite list of use classifications as utilized in Table 6-1.
Therefore, the city planner (or other authority designated by the Planning Commission) is empowered
to make interpretations to classify any questioned use within a use classification of most similar impact
and characteristics. Appeals of such interpretations may be made to the Board of Zoning Adjustment
per Article 14.

Section 6.6. Unclassified Uses
In the event the City of Chelsea receives an application requesting the permitting of a use that is not
listed or that cannot appropriately fit in a district listed in Table 6-1, the following procedure shall
apply:
6.6.1. If compatible with the existing use district intent, the unclassified use may be permitted.
6.6.2. If the unclassified use would not be compatible with the intent of the existing use district, the
Planning Commission shall make a determination of the most appropriate use district and require the
applicant have the property rezoned.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 26 -




6.6.3. Following final action of the unclassified use per above paragraphs, the Planning Commission

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@) may initiate an amendment to this ordinance to include the newly permitted use in the Table 6-1.
Table 6-1 Uses - Permitted, Supplemental, Special Exception, Not Permitted
Supplemental
“gs
RESIDENTIAL
Dwelling, Accessory S S S S S
Dwelling, Duplex S S
Dwelling, Fourplex S S
Dwelling, Garden Homes, Patio
Homes S S
Dwelling, Manufactured Home
Residence
Dwelling, Multifamily
Dwelling, Single Family ey
Dwelling, Townhomes/Attached S S
Dwelling, Upper Story S S S S
Manufactured Home Park
Manufactured Home/Trailer as
© Office Space 5 5 Ss 5 Sis S Ss S
Subdivision, Conservation S S S
INSTITUTIONAL
Cemetery S S S
Child Care Center s |s |s S fee iy 1s
Child Care Institution S S S S Sons S S
Clinic Nyy ae
Club, Private Vy
Community Center ‘
Day Care, Home S S Ss S S
Group Home, Communal S S

 

Living Facility, Independent

 

Living Facility, Assisted

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Places of Worship S S
Public Facility S Vy ie iy ay is
Public Utility Facility Ss Ss S S Ss |S Ss Ss S
School : yoy iy ie
COMMERCIAL
Auto Dismantling & Salvage Yards s
Bed & Breakfast Inn S S S

© Boarding House S S S

 

 

 

 

 

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -27-




Supplemental
hd

Business/Professional Office
Camper Park
Car Wash, Stand Alone

Convenience
Car Wash

Chartered Bank or Financial Service
Entertai Indoor
Entertai Outdoor
Public
S or Pa
Garden Center or N
General Retail, Enclosed
Home Im Center
Home tion
Hotel
Mini-Warehouse

Motel
or Financia
Service

Office

Pawn

Recreation, Indoor

Recreation, Outdoor
Fast Food
Standard

Service Station

Center
Temporary Outdoor Sales

Temporary Structure
Theater, Drive-In

Vehicle Sales or Rental
INDUSTRIAL

Industrial Uses
Manufacturi

Public Uti Facilities
V nary
Kennel

Distribution
Wireless Communication Structures | S

City of Chelsea Zoning Code

 

- 28 -




Supplemental
“ S ”

   

 

 

Le

  

 

AGRICULTURAL

 

 

Farm

 

 

Greenhouse, No Sales

 

 

Home Gardens, No Sales

 

 

Kennel/Animal Shelters

 

Permitted

Supplemental

 
 
 

Special
| Exception

Not Permitted |

 

 

 

| Indicates a use permitted by right, provided that all other requirements

  
    

of state law and this ordinance have been met and provided that a
zoning certificate has been issued in accordance with Article 15

 

  
 

Indicates a use that may be permitted as a supplemental use in a district
provided that the requirements of Article 9 have been met.

 

   
  

Uses identified by district but subject to approval by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment

 

  

Indicates a use that is not permitted in a district

 

 

Section 6.7. Area and Dimensional Requirements
Setbacks, height restrictions, and minimum lot size and width are useful tools in zoning to help
maintain standards and separate land uses. Except as otherwise provided by Articles 7, and 8, the area

and dimensional regulations set forth in Table 6-2 shall be observed.

Table 6-2 Area Requirements

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

District Lot Size

Zoning Min. Lot

District Min. Lot Size | Width
Greater than

A-R 10 acres 150
1 acre to 10

E-1 Acres 150
20,000 = Sq.

R-1 Ft. - 1 Acre 100

 

 

 

 

 

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 29 -

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

District Lot Size
Zoning Min. Lot
District Min. Lot Size | Width
15,000 Sq.
R-2 Ft. To .5 acre | 75
R-R Current Conditions
FAR 2.0' &
Maximum 75%
O-! LS.R? 50
Maximum
2,500 Sq. Ft.
B-1 Floor Space? | 0
Maximum 80%
B-2 1.S.R3 0
M-1 0 0
'F.A.R: Floor to Area Ratio is ratio of the total floor area of buildings on a certain location to
the size of the land of that location, or the limit imposed on such a ratio. Floor Area Ratio =
(Total covered area on all floors of all buildings on a certain plot)/ (Area of the plot).
The Gross Floor Area of each use/tenant does not exceed 2,500 sq. ft.
3 |.$.R: Impervious Surface Ratio. The Impervious Surface Ratio is a performance standard used
to measure development intensity on a particular site.

 

 

Section 6.8. Buffer Requirements

Buffers shall be located along all zoning district boundaries or property lines, which separate property
that is zoned to permit or is currently used for the uses stipulated in the following table. The
developing use provides the buffer, so when the zoning in the column is developed adjacent to the
zone in the row, the zone in the column shall provide the required buffer. Except as otherwise
provided Article 7 and Article 8, the buffer regulations set forth in Table 6-3 shall be observed. For
example, the buffer between Residential and Industrial Use shall be 30 feet. The required buffer
between B-1 business and Office/Institutional shall be O feet

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 30-




The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance and replacement of all landscaping materials
and irrigation systems required by this article. All plant material shall be tended and maintained in a
healthy growing condition, replaced when dead, and kept free of weeds, refuse, and debris.

All required buffers shall be irrigated with automatic irrigation systems; except that buffers, which
are approved as natural buffers, shall not require irrigation.

Table 6-3 Buffer Requirements

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20 20 30 30

20 20 20
0 10 20
0 10 25
20 10 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

In reading this table refer to land use in the first column and then the planned land use in columns 2 -
6. For example, B-2 Business adjacent to Industrial Use shall have a 25-foot buffer.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -31-

 




City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Intentional Blank Page

- 32 -

 




Article 7. Planned Development Districts

Section 7.1. Intent

Planned development districts are hereby authorized for the purpose of providing optional methods of
land development, which encourages imaginative solutions to environmental design problems. Areas so
established shall be characterized by a unified building and site development program providing for
coordinated open space and architectural treatment. A planned development district is intended to
provide flexibility of design, types, and densities for either residential neighborhoods or commercial
developments. The minimum acreage required to be considered for planned development district
zoning is 20 acres for PRDs and five (5) acres for PMDs.

Section 7.2. Procedures

The following are the procedures to be followed for the development of a planned development

district.
7.2.1. Any petition for the establishment of a planned development district shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for its review and action. Approval of the request shall be based on the Planning
Commission's consideration of the following criteria:

A. That the value and character of the property or properties adjacent to the tract of land under
consideration will not be adversely affected.

B. That the proposed development is consistent with the intent and purpose of this ordinance to
promote public health, safety, and the general welfare.

C. That the final plan for the proposed development meets the requirements of this ordinance as well
as the requirements of all other regulating bodies.

D. That an approved method of sewage disposal is available to the tract under consideration.

E. The application must be accompanied by a site development plan showing the use or uses,
dimensions and locations of all improvements, and such other pertinent information as may be
necessary to adequately determine that the proposed development meets the purpose of this
ordinance.

F. The Planning Commission shall review the conformity of the proposed development by employing
recognized principles of design and land-use planning. The minimum yard and maximum height
requirements and use buffers of the zoning district shall not apply except as set forth herein for each
planned development district. The Planning Commission may impose additional conditions regarding
layout, circulation, and other physical improvements.

7.2.2. Incomplete submittals will not be presented to the Planning Commission for review.

Section 7.3. Restrictions

The establishment of a planned development district will be for the express purpose of improving the
tract of land in accordance with the approved plan of development for the particular tract of land and
for the use set forth in the development plan.

7.3.1. If, within one (1) year from the effective date of the rezoning, construction has not
commenced, the Planning Commission may, by appropriate action, repeal the amendment establishing
the planned development district. Once construction is started, the improvements set forth in the
plan of development must be completed within two years from date of issuance. Otherwise, the
Planning Commission may repeal the rezoning establishing the planned development district.
Extension of time may be granted as long as satisfactory progress is being made.

7.3.2. Unless specific variations are noted on the development plan and approved by the Planning
Commission, the most restrictive requirements for parking, loading, yards, and dimensional
regulations for the proposed use shall be applicable to the planned development district.

7.3.3. Any proposed deed restrictions, covenants, and organizational documents shall accompany
the layout plan at time of submittal. Submittal shall include articles of incorporation and bylaws
creating a Homeowner’s or Condominium Association, as applicable, for residential subdivisions.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -33-

 




7.3.4. If there is a Homeowner’s or Condominium Association, as applicable, representing residents
of the development, then membership in the association shall be mandatory and automatic for all
homeowners of the development and their successors. The Association shall have lien authority to
ensure the collection of dues from all members. There shall be only one Homeowner’s or
Condominium Association for the development.

Section 7.4. Planned Development District Plan Requirements
Planned development district shall be planned in a comprehensive manner accounting for all land and
maybe physically developed in phases. Minor variations from the original plan may occur.

7.4.1. Written Documentation
A. Legal description of the total site, including statement of present and proposed ownership.

B. A statement of development objectives, including a description of the character of the proposed
development, its consistency with the comprehensive plan, and the relationship to surrounding
neighborhoods and other existing developments.

C. A development schedule indicating the approximate dates when construction can be expected to
begin and be completed and any applicable phasing of the construction.

D. A statement of the applicant’s intentions with regard to future selling or leasing of all or portions of
the development, including land areas, dwellings, etc.

E. Plan for or intended manner of permanent care and maintenance of open spaces.

F. A visual presentation of how the planned development district will relate to and be compatible with
adjacent and neighboring areas

7.4.2. Development Plan

A. Development name.

B. Legal title, quarter-quarter section(s), township, and range.
C. Scale, north arrow, and vicinity map.

D. Boundary survey and dimensions of property.

E. Delineation of all designated flood hazard areas, wetlands, and contiguous areas of 5,000 sq. ft.
and greater with slopes greater than 15%.

F. Delineation of proposed land use areas.
G. Proposed lot lines and dimensions.

H. Estimated percentages of acreage to be devoted to each land use type including any sub-categories
within residential, commercial, institutional, recreational, etc.

I. Number of all existing and proposed residential structures including the following:
Locations of different housing types.
Building locations and orientations.

Number of units and stories, floor-to-floor heights, and total heights per building, and floor areas of
dwelling units.

J. Number of all existing and proposed non-residential structures, including the following:
Types of uses proposed.

Building locations and orientations.

Number of stories, floor-to-floor heights, total heights per building, and all floor areas.

K. Location and size of all areas to be conveyed, dedicated, or reserved as common open space, public
parks, recreational areas, and similar public and semi-public uses.

L. Location of utilities, above-ground public utility facilities, and easements.
M. Thoroughfare plans which include the following:

Location and dimension of thoroughfares, alleys, driveways, and access points.
Notations of proposed ownership of thoroughfares.

Location, dimensions, and capacities of parking areas.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 34-

 




Service and loading zones.

Sidewalks, greenways, and other pedestrian and bicycle paths.

N. Location and design for drainage and on-site treatment of storm water including the following:
Curbs and gutters, inlets, culverts, and access to public storm sewer system.

Drainage ways, vegetative swales.

Detention and retention elements.

A general landscape plan indicating treatments and materials used for private and common open
spaces and the landscape treatment of the perimeter of the development including materials and
techniques to be used.
O. Additional Information. Any additional information determined by the building inspector and/or
city engineer to be reasonable and necessary for evaluating the character and potential impact of the
proposed development.

Section 7.5. Incentives for Planned Development Districts
To further a superior level of design and amenity in new development, the following incentives are
offered in planned development districts:

7.5.1. Variable Dimensional Zoning Standards: Except as otherwise provided herein, standards for lot
width, building height, floor area ratio, yard dimensions, off-street parking and loading, landscaping
and screening, fences, signs, and other standards may vary from those established elsewhere in this
ordinance if such variations are approved by the Planning Commission.

7.5.2. Variable Subdivision Design Standards: Dimensional and design standards for subdivisions and
subdivision improvements such as streets, blocks, sidewalks and parkways, but not improvement
construction standards, may vary from those established in the City of Chelsea Subdivision
Regulations.

7.5.3. Mixed Land Uses: Land uses other than those allowed as Permitted or Supplemental Uses in the
applicable base zoning districts may be permitted. In Residential Districts, no more than 10 percent of
the net area of the development--excluding streets, retention and detention areas, and other public
improvements--shall be devoted to business or commercial uses.

7.5.4. The developer may submit plats in stages to the Planning and Zoning Commission if they are in
substantial compliance with the approved plan.

Section 7.6. Open Space
The following conditions govern open space requirements:

7.6.1. Permissible Land Uses
The following land uses may be counted toward open space requirements.

A. All floodplains may remain in permanent open space.
B. All wetlands not in the floodplain shall remain in permanent open space.

C. Sixty percent of areas with slopes of fifteen to thirty percent shall remain in permanent open
space.

D. Eighty percent of areas with slopes of greater than thirty percent shall remain in permanent open
space.

E. All lakes and ponds shall remain in permanent open space.

F. Seventy-five percent of the area within fifty feet of all ponds and lakes shall remain in permanent
open space.

G. Drainage easements left in a natural state may be counted as open space.
7.6.2. Calculating Open Space

A. Required open space shall be calculated by multiplying the required open space ratio by the
remainder of the gross site area less the area for roads, road rights-of-way, rights-of-way for utilities,
and easements of access; land that is not contiguous or separated by a road, railroad, existing land
uses, Or major stream such that common use is hindered or that land is unavailable for building

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 35-

 




purposes; any existing recreation or resource conservation easements; land set aside for non-
residential uses; and land required for buffer yards.

B. If the open space required in any planned development district is less than that required in any
planned development district performance standards then other open space must be set aside until the
amount of required open space is met or exceeded. Options for providing additional open space
include:

Natural areas. Areas of undisturbed vegetation or areas replanted with vegetation after construction.
Woodlands, wetlands, prairies, and savannah are types of natural areas.

Agricultural uses of field or pasture.
Recreational areas.
Commonly owned lawns.

7.6.3. Preservation and Maintenance of Open Space. Open space areas shall be maintained so that
their use and enjoyment as open space are not diminished or destroyed. Open space areas may be
owned, preserved, and maintained as required by this section, by any of the following mechanisms or
combinations thereof:

A. Dedication of open space to the City of Chelsea, if the city is willing to accept the open space or an
appropriate public agency, if there is a public agency willing to accept the dedication.

B. Common ownership of the open space by a homeowners’ association, which assumes full
responsibility for its maintenance. There must be a demonstrable method for ensuring that the open
space is maintained in perpetuity. The conditions of the responsibility must be set out in the covenants
that run with the land.

C. Dedication of development rights of open space, as an example, for development of a public or
private park, may be made to the appropriate public agency with ownership remaining with the
developer or homeowner’s association. Maintenance responsibility shall remain with the owner.

D. Deed-restricted private ownership that shall prevent development and/or subsequent subdivision of
the open space land and provide the maintenance responsibility.

Section 7.7. Plan Review and Approval

The City of Chelsea Planning Commission shall approve or deny an application for the approval of a
planned development district plan, or shall approve an application subject to conditions. Any approval,
denial, or conditions attached to a development permit approval shall be based on and implement the
Planned Development District regulations, and the goals, policies, and guidelines of the comprehensive
plan.

7.7.1. Public Hearing
A public hearing is required prior to the approval of a planned development district plan.

7.7.2. Next Steps

Once a final planned development district plan has been approved, the developer may proceed with
the process as outlined in the City of Chelsea Subdivision Regulations and/or the City of Chelsea Design
and Construction Guidelines. The planning commission may review the planned development district
plan concurrently with its review of the preliminary subdivision plat under the City of Chelsea
Subdivision Regulations and the City of Chelsea Design and Construction Guidelines.

7.7.3. Plan Amendments

A. Minor Amendments

The Code Enforcement Officer/City Engineer may approve minor amendments to the final development
plan. A minor amendment is an amendment required by technical or engineering considerations first
discovered during development that could not reasonably have been anticipated during the approval
process.

B. Major Amendments
The planning commission must approve major changes to the planned development district plan. Major
changes include any or all of the following:

Any increase in the total number of residential units.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 36-

 




A 10% or more change in the total amount of commercial, industrial or institutional floor area to be
contained within the planned development district.

Any street changes which involve removing or adding additional streets and/or intersections.

A 15% or more change in the amount of open space and/or land area to be provided for private and/or
public recreational purposes.

Any change in the land to be dedicated to the public for public use and maintenance.

Any change which significantly adversely affects the internal or external compatibility of the planned
development district or its long-term impact on the community.

Any change which violates a standard and/or regulation set forth in the City of Chelsea Zoning
Ordinance or Subdivision Regulations which applies to the planned development district.

A change in the outer boundaries of the planned development district.

A 15% or more change to the lot area of any lot contained within the planned development district.

Section 7.8. Planned Residential District (PRD)
The primary purpose of this district is to accommodate a majority residential development with some
commercial development on parcels constrained by natural or man-made restrictions. By allowing for
clustering and higher densities, environmental features may be preserved rather than encroached
upon. PRD shall only be allowed in A-R, R-R, E-1, R-1, R-2, districts. The minimum acreage for PRD is
20 acres.

7.8.1. PRD Plan Development
The following requirements are minimums and are intended to serve as a guide in plan formulation.
The Planning Commission retains the authority to waive the provisions of this section or to impose
greater requirements than herein stated. All residential buildings shall be set back from street right-of-
way lines and from the periphery of the project to comply with the following requirements:

A. Unless indicated elsewhere, all residential buildings shall have a set-back of not less than 25 feet
from the back of curb; set-backs for all other structures shall be as determined by the Planning
Commission.

B. In no case shall a lot for a single-family detached structure be created with an area of less than
6,000 square feet or a frontage of less than 50 feet at the building line.

C. Where the planned residential development provides for single family attached dwellings
(townhomes) to be held under individual ownership by the occupant, a plat of development shall be
recorded and shall show building lines, common land, streets, easements, and other applicable
features.

7.8.2. Permitted PRD Uses
Table 7-1 Permitted PRD Uses

USES PRD

 

 

 

RESIDENTIAL
Dwelling, Accessory
Dwelling, Duplex
Dwelling, Fourplex

Dwelling, Garden Homes, Patio Homes
Dwelling, Manufactured Home
Residence

Dwelling, Multifamily

Dwelling, Single Family
Dwelling, Townhomes/Attached
Dwelling, Upper Story

 

 

 

 

[NIN |n|w

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 37-

 




USES

Manufactured Home Park
actured Home/Trailer as Office

Subdivision, Conservation
Subdivision, Cottage

INSTITUTIONAL

Child Care Center
Child Care Institution
Clinic
Club, Private
Comm Center
Care, Home
Group Home
Living Facility, Independent
Living Facility, Assisted
Places Of Worshi
Public Facil
Public Utility Facil
School
COMMERCIAL
Auto Dismantling & Sa Yards
Bank Or Financial Service
Bed & Breakfast Inn
Boarding House

Business/Professional Office
Camper Park
Car Wash
Convenience Store
Entertainment, Indoor
Entertainment, Outdoor
Public
S or Parki
Garden Center or N
General Retail, Enclosed
Home Center
Home tion
Hotel
Mini-Warehouse
Motel
Office

 

City of Chelsea Zoning Code

- 38 -

 




 

 

USES

Pawn Shop
Recreation, Indoor
Recreation, Outdoor
Restaurant, Fast Food
Restaurant, Standard
Restaurant, Pub
Service Station
Shopping Center
Temporary Outdoor Sales
Temporary Structure
Theater, Drive-In

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vehicle Sales Or Rental
INDUSTRIAL

Industrial Uses
Manufacturing

Public Utility Facilities
Warehousing, Distribution
Wireless Communication Structures
AGRICULTURAL

Farm

Greenhouse, No Sales
Home Gardens, No Sales
Kennel/Animal Shelters

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Indicates a use permitted by right, provided that all other requirements
____| of state law and this ordinance have been met and provided that a
Permitted Y —_| zoning certificate has been issued in accordance with Article 15

 

Indicates a use that may be permitted as a supplemental use in a
district provided that the requirements of Article 9 have been met.

 

Supplemental

 

 

 

Uses identified by district but subject to approval by the Board of
Zoning Adjustment

_| Indicates a use that is not permitted in a district

Special Exception
Not Permitted

 

 

Section 7.9. Planned Mixed Use Development (PMD)

The regulations established in this section are intended to provide optional methods of land
development with provisions for commercial, residential, religious, educational and cultural facilities,
which are integrated with the total project by unified architectural and open space treatment.
Minimum acreage for PMD is 5 acres.

7.9.1. PMD Plan Development
There shall be a front yard for all detached single-family dwellings of not less than 20 feet. The front
yard setback for all other structures shall be as determined by the Planning Commission.

A. In no case shall a lot, for a single family detached structure, be created with an area of less than
5,000 sq. ft. or a frontage of less than fifty (50) feet at the building line.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 39-

 

 




B. Where the PMD residential development provides for single family attached dwellings (townhomes)
to be held under individual ownership by the occupant, the plat shall be recorded and shall show
building lines, common land, streets, easements, and other applicable features.

Single-family attached dwellings, duplex dwellings, and fourplex dwellings, including condominiums
and townhomes, are permitted at gross densities of 10 dwelling units per acre.

7.9.2. Permitted PMD Uses

Table 7-2 Permitted PMD Uses
USES PMD

 

 

 

RESIDENTIAL
Dwelling, Accessory
Dwelling, Duplex
Dwelling, Fourplex

Dwelling, Garden Homes, Patio Homes
Dwelling, Manufactured Home
Residence

Dwelling, Multifamily

Dwelling, Single Family
Dwelling, Townhomes/Attached S
Dwelling, Upper Story

Manufactured Home Park

Manufactured Home/Trailer as Office
Space S
Subdivision, Conservation

Subdivision, Cottage
INSTITUTIONAL
Cemetery

Child Care Center
Child Care Institution
Clinic

Club, Private
Community Center

Day Care, Home
Group Home
Living Facility, Independent

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

«| |<

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

Living Facility, Assisted

Places Of Worship

Public Facility

Public Utility Facility

School

COMMERCIAL

Auto Dismantling & Salvage Yards

 

 

 

 

<|N|[nln jn] uizin |<

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 40 -

 




USES
Bank Or Financial Service

Bed & Breakfast Inn
Boarding House

Business/Professional Office
Camper Park
Car Wash
Convenience Store
Entertainment, Indoor
Entertainment, Outdoor

Public

Ss Or
Garden Center Or
General Retail, Enclosed
Home | Center
Home tion
Hotel
Mini-Warehouse
Motel
Office
Pawn
Recreation, Indoor
Recreation, Outdoor
Restaurant, Fast Food
Resta Standard

Pub

Service Station

Center
Temporary Outdoor Sales

Temporary Structure
Theater, Drive-In

Vehicle Sales Or Rental
INDUSTRIAL

Industrial Uses

Manufacturi

Public Utility Facilities

Warehousing, Distribution

Wireless Communication Structures
AGRICULTURAL

Farm

Greenhouse, No Sales

 

City of Chelsea Zoning Code

-A41-

 




 

 

i USES PMD
Home Gardens, No Sales Me

Kennel/Animal Shelters ND

 

 

 

 

 

 

Indicates a use permitted by right, provided that all other requirements
of state law and this ordinance have been met and provided that a
Permitted x zoning certificate has been issued in accordance with Article 15

 

Indicates a use that may be permitted as a supplemental use in a

Supplemental district provided that the requirements of Article 9 have been met.

 

| Uses identified by district but subject to approval by the Board of
Zoning Adjustment

Indicates a use that is not permitted in a district

 

Special Exception
Not Permitted

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 8. SmartCode Districts
The City of Chelsea has established SmartCode Districts; the complete SmartCode is contained in
“Chelsea SmartCode” published under separate cover.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 42 -

 




Article 9. Supplementary Use Regulations and Modifications
The uses identified in Articles 6 or 7 as subject to supplemental use regulations shall comply with all
applicable standards for applicable uses as defined within this article.

Section 9.1. Applicability and Enforcement

After the effective date of this ordinance, any existing building proposed for a change in use that under
this ordinance is subject to Supplemental Use Regulations, shall be required to obtain a Certificate of
Occupancy from the building inspector stating that the structure, lot, and proposed use complies with
all standards for the stated use. A Certificate of Occupancy required for a new building shall similarly
reflect the building inspector’s satisfaction that all requirements have been met for a use subject to
Supplemental Use Regulations. The regulations set forth in this article supplement or modify the
district regulations appearing elsewhere in this ordinance.

Section 9.2. Supplemental Regulations for All Uses

9.2.1. Area Modifications for Lots of Record

Where a lot of record at the time of the effective date of this ordinance had less area or less width
than herein required for the district in which it is located, said lot may nonetheless be used as a
building site provided the yard space and other requirements conform as closely as possible, in the
opinion of the Planning Commission, to the requirements for the district in which it is located.

9.2.2. Height Modifications

A. Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, head houses, fire towers, gas tanks, steeples,
penthouses, stacks, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers and spires, or necessary mechanical
appurtenances, where permitted, may be erected to any height not in conflict with existing or
hereafter adopted ordinances of the City of Chelsea, except that where permitted in connection with
residential uses, such structures shall be limited to a height of twenty feet above the maximum height
of structures permitted in that district. The height of wireless telecommunications facilities shall be
regulated in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.39 of this article.

B. The limitation on number of stories shall not apply to buildings used exclusively for storage
purposes, provided such buildings do not exceed the height in feet permitted in the district in which
they are located.

C. Public, semi-public, or public service buildings, including but not limited to hospitals, schools, and
churches, when permitted in a district with height limitations of less than sixty feet, may be erected to
a maximum height of sixty feet, provided side yards are increased by one foot for each foot of
additional building height above the height limitation for the district in which the building is located.

9.2.3. General Yard Modifications

A. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky; unobstructed by any structure or part
thereof; and unoccupied for storage, servicing, or similar use except as provided herein.

B. Sills, belt courses, or ornamental features may project into any yard not to exceed six inches.

C. Cornices or eaves may project into any required yard not to exceed 18 inches.

D. Terraces, uncovered porches, underground fallout shelters, or ornamental features that do not
extend more than five (5) feet above grade may project into a required yard, provided such projections
are at least two (2) feet to any lot line.

E. More than one multiple dwelling, institutional, commercial, or industrial building may be located
upon a lot or tract; but such buildings shall not encroach upon the front, side, and rear yards required
by the district regulations. For multiple dwellings, the open space between buildings shall be 30 feet
when one or both are two-story buildings, and 40 feet when one or both are three or more story
buildings.

F. Where an open space is more than fifty percent surrounded by residential or institutional buildings,
the minimum width of the open space shall be at least 20 feet for one story building, 30 feet for two
story buildings and 40 feet for three or more story buildings.

G. In a residential district, a private swimming pool shall be enclosed by a fence of not less than four
(4) feet in height. No mechanical appurtenance or pool shall be within 10 feet of any lot line.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 43 -

 




The minimum dimension of a yard upon which any entrance or exit of a multiple dwelling faces shall be
20 feet.

H. Wherever yards are provided between commercial or industrial structures, they shall have a
minimum width of not less than six (6) feet.

9.2.4. Front Yard Modifications
The required front yards heretofore established shall be modified in the following cases:

A. Where 40 percent or more of the frontage on the same side of a street between two intersecting
streets is presently developed or may hereafter be developed with buildings that have (with a variation
of five (5) feet or less), a front yard greater or lesser in depth than herein required, new buildings shall
not be erected closer to the street than the average front yard so established by the existing buildings.

B. Where 40 percent or more of the frontage on one side of a street between two intersecting streets
is presently developed or may hereafter be developed with buildings that do not have a front yard as
described above, then the following applies:

Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is within 100 feet of existing buildings on

both sides, the minimum front yard shall be a line drawn between the two closest front corners of the

adjacent buildings, or

Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is within 100 feet of an existing building on

one side only, such building may be erected as close to the street as the existing adjacent building.

C. Through lots shall provide the required front yard on both streets.

D. Corner lots shall provide a front yard on each street side. However, the buildable width of a lot of
record need not be reduced to less than 28 feet; provided that the side yards shall in no case be
reduced to less than that otherwise required for the zone district. No accessory building shall project
into the front yard on either street.

E. Permitted signs attached to buildings may extend into a front yard or the required yard abutting a
side street not to exceed 18 inches.

Service station pumps and pump islands may be located within a required front yard, but in no case
shall the pump centerline be closer than 15 feet to any street line.

9.2.5. Rear Yard Modifications
The rear yards heretofore established shall be modified in the following cases:

A. Where a lot abuts upon an alley, one-half of the alley width may be considered as part of the
required rear yard.

B. An unenclosed balcony, porch steps, or fire escape may project into a rear yard for a distance not
exceeding 10 feet.

C. Accessory buildings and structures may be built in a rear yard, but such accessory buildings and
structures shall not occupy more than 30 percent of the required rear yard and shall not be nearer than
three (3) feet to any side or rear lot line, except that when a garage is entered from an alley, it shall
not be located closer than seven (7) feet to the alley line.

9.2.6. Walls and Fences
Walls or fences may be located within the yards except as provided herein.

A. No wall or fence in a front yard shall exceed a height of four (4) feet, except as required for a
retaining wall.

B. No wall or fence in a rear or side yard shall exceed a height of six and one-half (6%) feet, except as
required for a retaining wall.

C. In any residential district, no fence, structure, or planting, which obstructs visibility, shall be
maintained within 25 feet of any street intersection.

Section 9.3. Applicability and Enforcement

After the effective date of this ordinance, any existing building proposed for a change in use that under
this ordinance is subject to Supplemental Use Regulations, shall be required to obtain a Certificate of
Occupancy from the building inspector stating that the structure, lot, and proposed use complies with
all standards for the stated use. A Certificate of Occupancy required for a new building shall similarly

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 44 -

 




reflect the building inspector’s satisfaction that all requirements have been met for a use subject to
Supplemental Use Regulations.

Section 9.4. Agricultural Uses

9.4.1. Setbacks
A. Poultry houses for housing more than five hundred (500) birds shall not be located closer than 300
feet from all lot lines and thoroughfare right-of-way lines.

B. Structures for housing more than 25 head of livestock shall not be located closer than 100 feet from
all lot lines and thoroughfare right-of-way lines.

C. If the owner of the proposed structure owns the land on the other side of the thoroughfare opposite
the location of the proposed structure, such structure need only be set back from the thoroughfare
right-of-way line the distance as required in the district where it is to be located; provided however,
that the structure shall not be closer than 100 feet to any lot lines.

D. Piles of feed or bedding shall be located no closer than one 150 feet from a public thoroughfare
right-of-way line, lot line, or zoning district boundary to minimize odor and nuisance problems.

E. Manure shall be stored for removal and disposed of in accordance with all applicable county, state,
and federal regulations. No manure piles shall be located closer than 150 feet from a public
thoroughfare right-of-way, lot line, zoning district boundary, wetland, watercourse, or other water
body.

9.4.2. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may permit the expansion of existing poultry and livestock

facilities closer to the property and street right-of-way lines than permitted above if the Board finds

that the expansion of such facilities will not be more detrimental to surrounding properties than the
existing use.

9.4.3. All concentrated animal operations shall require a nutrient management plan prepared by the
USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) that is approved by the Shelby County Soil and
Water Conservation District prior to the commencement of such operation.

9.4.4. All agricultural practices shall comply with the USDA-NRCS Field Office Technical Guide’s
Standards and Specifications for such practices.

9.4.5. Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any manure storage facility, the applicant shall
provide the building inspector with a letter from the Shelby County Soil and Water Conservation
District or the USDA-NRCS approving the construction of the facility.

9.4.6. Stables and Corrals
A. The minimum area for stable and corral uses shall be one (1) acre.

B. No more than one (1) horse or pony shall be permitted for each net one (1) acre and no more than
one (1) additional horse or pony are permitted for each additional net acre.

C. All stables shall be located a minimum of 100 feet from all lot lines.

Section 9.5. Condominium
9.5.1. Condominium Buildings
A. Mailboxes and laundry rooms shall also be within the same building.

B. Parking areas for tenants shall be setback behind the front building line and shall further be setback
no less than 15 feet from the building. A sidewalk of no less than 4 feet in width shall be provided
between the building and parking area.

C. No less than 10% of the site area shall be improved and maintained as open space for the passive
recreational use of tenants.

D. All utilities shall be placed underground; public water and sewer must be available to the site.
9.5.2. Condominium Complexes
A. Minimum Lot size: 12,000 sq. ft.

B. All buildings shall be set back at least 15 feet from all parking areas. A sidewalk of no less than 4
feet in width shall be provided between all buildings and parking areas.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 45 -

 




C. Buildings shall be spaced front-to-front, front-to-rear, front-to-side, and rear-to-rear at least to a
> distance equal to twice the tallest building height and spaced side-to-side and side-to-rear at least to a
distance equal to the tallest building height.
D. No less than 20% of the site area, and not less than 2,400 sq. ft., shall be improved and maintained
as open space for the passive recreational use of tenants.
E. All utilities shall be placed underground; all condominium complexes shall be served by public
water and sewer.

Section 9.6. Assisted Living Facility

9.6.1. General Standards. No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued prior to the issuance of
required permits and certificates by federal, state, and local agencies.

9.6.2. Location Standards. Development shall be located on an arterial street or collector street. Off-
site grocery, other commercial establishments, and medical conveniences should be within the ability
of aged persons to reach them easily either by walking safely to them (within 2,000 feet on level
sidewalks) or by transportation provided by project and facility owners. If the latter, there shall be
frequent daily scheduled transportation service within a 5-10 minute ride to grocery, other
commercial establishments, and medical conveniences. The location, design, and operating
characteristics of the use shall be compatible with and not adversely affect adjacent properties and
the surrounding area. The proposed development shall be harmonious with surrounding buildings with
respect to scale, architectural design, and building placement. The street network shall be capable of
accommodating the traffic generated by the proposed use.

9.6.3. Site Standards.

A. These facilities should be designed to cluster the residential units and associated buildings based on
the net density and provide sufficient open space and amenity areas.

B. Ten (10) percent of the total parking spaces shall be designated as handicap accessible.
C. Each unit shall contain at least 400 sq. ft. of gross floor area.

@ 9.6.4. Area Regulations. All buildings shall be set back from the street right-of-way and from all lot
lines as required by the zone within which the development is located except where they are adjacent
to a residential or agricultural zone or a state highway, the minimum setback shall be 50 feet.

Section 9.7. Auto Dismantling, Junk, and Salvage Yards
In addition to the buffer requirements of 86.8, auto dismantling, junk, and salvage yard operations
shall conform to the following requirements:

9.7.1. A minimum eight (8) foot wall, privacy fence or other suitable screen shall be provided to
block views of all outdoor storage areas from adjacent public streets and neighboring properties.

9.7.2. All wrecked cars, cars to be dismantled, and other junk will be stored at all times to the rear
(behind) the required screen.
Section 9.8. Bed and Breakfasts.

9.8.1. Bed and breakfast establishments shall only be permitted in single-family detached dwelling
units. The owner/operator shall be the primary resident/occupant of the establishment.

9.8.2. No cooking facilities shall be permitted in any bed and breakfast guest room. Breakfast may be
provided by the owner/operator.

9.8.3. There shall be no external alterations to the building except as may be necessary for safety
facilities such as fire escapes.

9.8.4. Rooms shall be rented on a nightly basis for periods not to exceed one (1) week.
9.8.5. Not more than one (1) non-family member of the owner shall be employed within the
establishment.

Section 9.9. Boarding Houses

9.9.1. Boarding houses shall only be permitted in single-family detached dwellings and shall be
tf operated by the owner. The owner shall also be the primary occupant of the dwelling.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 46 -

 




9.9.2. At least three (3), but not more than six (6), boarding rooms shall be available in a boarding
house.

9.9.3. Meals may be served for compensation only to boarders; in no case shall meals be served for
compensation to persons who are not boarders of the establishment. No cooking facilities shall be
permitted in any boarding room.

9.9.4. There shall be no external alterations to the building except as may be necessary for safety
facilities such as fire escapes.

9.9.5. Rooms shall be rented on a weekly or monthly basis.

9.9.6. The applicant for a use permit and certificate of use and occupancy shall demonstrate that
adequate public sewer and water service will be provided to the establishment and shall also
demonstrate that the boarding home complies with all State of Alabama requirements for such uses.

Section 9.10. Camper Parks
9.10.1. General Requirements.
A. No manufactured homes shall be permitted.

B. Developer shall furnish a sketch of the layout of camper trailer spaces, tent spaces, driveways,
buildings, utilities, and recreational areas.

C. Each camper trailer park shall contain a minimum of five (5) acres.

D. Sewerage facilities, washroom or toilet facilities, and water supply shall comply with all state and
county sanitary regulations governing tourist camps, cabin camps, tent camps, trailer camps, and
similar establishments.

E. The park shall afford proper drainage and same shall be approved by the city engineer.

F. Parks shall be restricted to towed campers or travel trailers not exceeding 31 feet in length, and to
self-propelled vehicles not exceeding 40 feet in length.

G. All electrical facilities/hookups, if provided, shall meet all local and state code requirements.

H. Parks shall be surrounded by an unoccupied open space or buffer strip 75 feet wide on all sides.
The inside 20 feet may be used for a driveway. The buffer shall be in accordance with 86.8.

9.10.2. Lot Sizes.

A. Minimum lot area - 1,600 sq. ft.

B. Minimum lot width - 30 feet

9.10.3. Driveways.

A. Minimum width shall be 20 feet for two-way traffic and 12 feet for one-way traffic.
B. Maximum grade shall be six percent (6%).

C. Minimum curve radius shall be 50 feet.

D. Minimum surface requirements for roadways and driveways shall be a four (4) inch sub-base with a
two (2) inches asphalt, or gravel surface. Regular and adequate maintenance shall be required to
facilitate circulation of traffic and maintain suitable surface for travel.

E. Adequate turnarounds shall be provided with no dead-end streets.

9.10.4. Electrical Requirements.

A. Electrical outlets shall meet the minimum standards of the National Electrical Code.
B. Washrooms or toilet facilities shall remain lighted at night.

C. Outdoor lighting is required along pathways to restrooms at a maximum of 100 feet apart, not
exceeding three (3) feet above ground and reflected downward, or as may be approved by the building
inspector to provide adequate visibility.

9.10.5. Camper parks may contain accessory buildings necessary for the operation of the park such as

bathhouses, rest rooms, laundry rooms, offices, and recreation buildings if approved by the

commission. For each 100 campsites or portion thereof, one (1) single family residence is allowed on
site for occupancy by the owner operator only.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 47 -

 




9.10.6. The commission shall have the right to require any other improvements deemed necessary for
proper layout and design, or health, safety, convenience, and general welfare of the residents of the
city.
Section 9.11. Cemeteries

9.11.1. General Regulations

A. A cemetery is a permitted supplemental use in the A-R, R-R, and O-I Districts provided, however,
that the location of all cemeteries shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission.

B. No cemetery except a family plot or "church yard" cemetery shall be established on a site
containing less than 10 acres.

C. The site proposed for a cemetery shall not interfere with the development of a system of streets or

a highway in the vicinity of such site. In addition, such site shall have direct access to a public
thoroughfare.

9.11.2. Setbacks

A. All gravesites shall be set back no less than 30 feet from all lot lines. All columbaria and
mausoleums shall be setback no less than 50 feet from all lot lines.

B. No gravesite shall be located closer than 150 feet from an underground water supply or within the
flood plain.

9.11.3. All required yards shall be landscaped and maintained.

Section 9.12. Conservation Subdivision

The intent of conservation subdivisions is to provide the flexibility to achieve the most effective
development on lands that are constrained by natural hazards or by environmental regulations, which
may limit the amount or type of development on such properties. The following are purposes of a
conservation subdivision:

A. To enhance quality of life by promoting the creation of accessible green spaces throughout the
community.

B. To protect sensitive, environmental land features, which will enhance/protect the health and
safety of residents and neighboring property owners.

C. To reduce erosion and sedimentation by minimizing land disturbance and removal of vegetation.

D. To allow clustering of homes and orienting them closer to the street, thereby providing gathering
places and encouraging the use of parks as focal points within the community.

E. To encourage street designs that reduce traffic speeds and excessive reliance on main arteries.

F. To promote construction of convenient walking trails, bike paths, and greenways within new
developments that are connected to adjacent neighborhoods and activity centers to increase
accessibility for pedestrians and bicyclists.

G. To reduce perceived density by providing a maximum number of lots with direct access to and
views of open space.

9.12.2. General Regulations.

A. Applicability of Regulations. The Conservation Subdivision is available as an option on properties
directly affected by the presence of flood hazard areas, severe topography, and areas otherwise
affected by federal, state, or city environmental regulations. The applicant shall comply with all other
provisions of the zoning ordinance and all other applicable regulations, except those incompatible with
the provisions herein.

B. Ownership of Development Site. The tract of land to be subdivided and/or developed may be held
in single, separate, or multiple ownership. If held in multiple ownership, however, the site shall be
developed according to a single plan with common authority and common responsibility.

C. Density Determination. The maximum number of lots on the site shall be determined, first by the
preparation of a yield plan and then preparation of a conservation subdivision plan. The yield plan is a
conventional subdivision plan conforming to the lot requirements of the applicable zoning district, but
not including protected open space. The plan does not have to meet the formal requirements for a site

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 48 -

 




design plan, but the design must be reasonably capable of being constructed given site constraints and
applicable regulations. Following the preparation of the yield plan, the developer shall prepare a
conservation subdivision plan, which yields no more lots than identified within the yield plan. The
conservation subdivision plan shall identify open spaces to be protected in accordance with §9.12.4 and
may include lots which do not meet the size and setback requirements of the applicable zone.

D. All federal (FEMA), state (ADEM), and local approvals for encroaching on environmentally sensitive
areas, including but not limited to wet lands and modifying flood plains, must be obtained prior to
submitting a site plan for approval.

9.12.3. Application Requirements

A. Site Analysis Map Required. Concurrent with the submission of a site concept plan, the applicant
shall prepare and submit a site analysis map. The purpose of the site analysis map is to ensure that
important site features have been adequately identified prior to the creation of the site design and
that the proposed open space will meet the requirements of this article. The preliminary site plan shall
include the following features:

Property boundaries

All streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands, flood hazard boundaries, and other hydrologic features.

All boundaries of applicable regulated buffer areas, easements, and rights-of-way.

Topographic features of no less than 5-foot intervals.

All Primary and Secondary Conservation Areas labeled by type, as described in 89.12.12 of this article.
General vegetation characteristics.

General soil types.

Planned location of protected open space.

Existing roads and structures.

Potential connections with existing green space and trails.

 

   

- ADJACENT
ENISTING ROAD &——_ RESIDENTIAL
Figure 1 Conservation Subdivision Site Analysis

9.12.4. Open Space Management Plan Required. An open space management plan, as described in
§9.12.5 (E.), shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a land disturbance permit and
shall include the following:

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 49 -

 




A. Instrument of Permanent Protection Required. An instrument of permanent protection, such as a
conservation easement or permanent restrictive covenant and as described herein, shall be placed on
the open space concurrent with the issuance of a land disturbance permit.

B. The applicant shall adhere to all other applicable requirements of the underlying zone and

subdivision regulations.

YIELD PLAN

5OO YEAR FLOOD 63 TOTAL LOTS Y f
100 YEAR FLOOD ne ae — ZZ, ¢
ApLa = Se

ioc EB BEE”
JEEP» GLE

ma
1
'
\
!

  
 

-" - )—-s {
- 1
Seri
RS
‘\ x Oh AWetllanDg
1
\

\ SS is \ \
\ cS VS bem aces  \
\ ES yy
JN ADLLA
Figure 2 Conservation Subdivision Yield Plan

CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION PLAN
“GUYRY o_ANNED

    

Seg ADIACENT
EXISTING RO RESIDENTIAL
Figure 3 Conservation Subdivision Plan

9.12.5. Open Space.
A. Definition. Open Space is the portion of the conservation development or subdivision that has been

set aside for permanent protection. Activities within the open space are restricted in perpetuity
through the use of an approved legal instrument.

B. Standards to Determine Open Space
The minimum restricted open space shall comprise at least 25% of the gross tract area.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 50 -

 




The following are considered Primary Conservation Areas and are required to be included within the
open space, unless the applicant demonstrates that this provision would constitute an unusual
hardship and be counter to the purposes of the conservation subdivision:

The 100-year floodplain.

Riparian zones of at least 75 ft. width along all perennial and intermittent streams.
Slopes above 25% of at least 10,000 sq. ft. contiguous area.

Wetlands that meet the definition used by the Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water
Act.

Populations of endangered or threatened species or habitat for such species.
Existing trails that connect the tract to neighboring areas.
Archaeological sites, cemeteries, and burial grounds.

The following are considered Secondary Conservation Areas and should be included within the open
space to the maximum extent feasible:
Important historic sites.

Existing healthy, native forests of at least one acre contiguous area.
Individual existing healthy trees greater than 8 inches caliper.

Other significant natural features and scenic view sheds, such as ridge lines, peaks, and rock
outcroppings, particularly those that can be seen from public roads.

Utility rights-of-way and small areas of impervious surface may be included within the protected open
space but cannot be counted towards the 25% minimum area requirement with the exception that
historic structures and existing trails may be counted. Large areas of impervious surface shall be
excluded from the open space.

At least 33% of the open space shall be suitable for passive recreational use.

At least 75% of the open space shall be in a contiguous tract. The open space shall adjoin any
neighboring areas of open space, other protected areas, and non-protected natural areas that would
be candidates for inclusion as part of a future area of protected open space.

The open space shall be directly accessible to the largest practicable number of lots and/or buildings
within the site. Non-adjoining lots shall be provided with safe, convenient access to the open space.

C. The following uses shall be permitted within the open space:
Conservation of natural, archeological, or historical resources.

Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game preserves, or similar conservation-oriented
areas.

Walking or bicycle trails constructed of porous paving materials.
Passive recreation areas, such as open fields.

Active recreation areas if they are limited to no more than 10% of the total open space and are not
located within Primary Conservation Areas. Active recreation areas may include impervious surfaces.
Active recreation areas in excess of this limit must be located outside of the protected open space.

Landscaped storm water management facilities, community wastewater disposal systems, and
individual wastewater disposal systems located on soils particularly suited to such uses. Such facilities
shall be located outside of Primary Conservation Areas.

Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility lines.

Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes of this ordinance.
D. The following uses shall be prohibited within the open space:

Golf courses.

Roads, parking lots, and similar impervious surfaces except as specifically authorized in the previous
sections.

Agricultural and forestry activities not conducted according to accepted best management practices.
Impoundments.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 51 -

 




Other activities as determined by the applicant and recorded on the legal instrument providing for
permanent protection.

E. Ownership and Management of Open Space

Ownership of Open Space in Residential Subdivisions. A Homeowner’s Association representing
residents of the conservation subdivision shall own the open space. Membership in the association
shall be mandatory and automatic for all homeowners of the subdivision and their successors. The
Homeowners’ Association shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members.
The responsibility for maintaining the open space and any facilities located thereon shall be borne by
the Homeowner’s Association.

Management Plan. Applicant shall submit a Plan for Management of Open Space and Common Facilities
that includes the following:

Allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the open space and any
facilities located thereon, including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital
improvements.

Estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for maintenance and operation of, and
insurance for, the open space and outlines the means by which such funding will be obtained or
provided.

Provides that any changes to the plan be approved by the commission.

Provides for enforcement of the plan.

In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the open space fails to maintain all or any
portion in reasonable order and condition, the city may assume responsibility for its maintenance and
may enter the premises and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance.
The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the Homeowner’s Association, or to the individual
property owners that make up the Homeowner’s Association, and may include administrative costs and
penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all subdivision properties.

F. Legal Instrument for Protection of Open Space

The open space shall be protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument that is recorded with
the deed. The instrument shall be one of the following:
A permanent conservation easement in favor of one of the following:

A land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-profit organization with legal authority to accept
such easements. The organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence and the
conveyance instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event the
organization becomes unable to carry out its functions.

A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals compatible with the purposes of this
ordinance.

If the entity accepting the easement is not the city, then a third right of enforcement favoring the
city shall be included in the easement.

A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in favor of a governmental entity.
An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, if approved by the city.

The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on the use of the open space.
These restrictions shall include all restrictions contained in this article, as well as any further
restrictions the applicant chooses to place on the use of the open space.

G. Tax Assessment of Open Space. Once a legal instrument for permanent protection has been placed

upon the open space, the Tax Assessor of Shelby County shall be requested to reassess the Open Space
at a lower value to reflect its more limited use. If the open space is used purely for passive
recreational purposes and the terms of the instrument for permanent protection effectively prohibit
any type of significant economic activity, then the assessment should be at a value of zero.

Section 9.13. Day Care Facilities
Day care facilities, operated within a residence, are not subject to the requirements for home
occupations but shall comply with the following requirements:

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 52 -

 




9.13.1. Application of Regulations
The provisions of this section shall apply to day care facilities providing service for part of a 24-hour
day for children less than 16 years of age, for the aged, or for persons who are disabled, by persons
giving care (excluding care provided by relatives). Day care facilities shall include Family Day Care
Homes and Day Care Centers. This Section does not apply to baby-sitting or child day care service
furnished in places of worship during religious services or related activities.

9.13.2. General Provisions
The following general provisions apply to all day care facilities.

A. All child day care facilities shall comply with all applicable State of Alabama and City of Chelsea
regulations.

B. The operator of a day care facility shall allow appropriate representatives of the municipality to
enter the property to inspect such use for compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.

C. Hours of outside play shall be limited to the hours between 8:00 a.m. and sunset as defined by the
National Weather Service. An outdoor play area shall be provided for child day care facilities and shall
not be located in the front yard.

D. Day care facilities utilizing, or proposing to utilize, an on-site sewage disposal system shall obtain a
written statement from the Shelby County Health Department certifying that the system is properly
designed to accommodate the use and show that there are no apparent signs of system failure.

E. Fencing shall be provided to restrict children from hazardous areas, such as open drainage ditches,
wells, holes, and principal arterial and minor arterial roads. Natural or physical barriers may be used in
place of fencing so long as such barriers functionally restrict children from these areas. On roadways
with a posted speed limit of greater than 25 MPH, all outdoor activity areas must be setback 35 feet
from the right-of-way.

F. The expansion of Day Care Home to a Day Care Center shall require rezoning to a district in which a
Day Care Center is permitted. When applying for rezoning, the applicant shall submit a plan showing
any existing or proposed outdoor play areas, outdoor play equipment, fencing, access drives, adjacent
streets, adjacent hazardous land uses, on-site hazardous areas (as previously defined), merchandise
delivery areas, on-lot sewage disposal facilities, parking spaces, and the child or adult drop-off
circulation pattern.

9.13.3. Day Care Homes
In addition to the other provisions of this Section, Day Care Homes shall comply with the following:

A. The facility must have a current state registration certificate. Proof of registration renewal must be
supplied to the city every two (2) years.

B. Any external evidence of such use shall be limited to one (1) non-illuminated sign subject to Article
11.

C. Family Day Care Homes shall only be permitted in single-family detached dwellings.
9.13.4. Day Care Centers

A. In addition to the other provisions of this section, Day Care Centers shall have an approved and
current, valid state license. Proof of state annual license renewal must be supplied to the city every
year.

B. A fence with a minimum height of four (4) feet shall physically contain the children within the
outdoor play area. Natural or physical barriers may be used in place of fencing so long as such barriers
functionally contain children.

C. If the facility has access to streets of different classifications, access shall be provided using the
street of lesser functional classification.

D. Play equipment shall be located at least 10 feet from an abutting lot line.

E. All pedestrian pathways shall be adequately lit for safety if utilized during non-daylight hours.
Specific areas for lighting are entranceways, pedestrian access to the outdoor play areas, sidewalks,
drop-off areas, merchandise delivery areas, and all parking lots. Such lighting shall not produce
objectionable glare on adjacent properties.

9.13.5. Application and Permitting Procedure

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 53 -

 




Any individual proposing a Family Day Care Home shall submit an application for a Family Day Care
Home Permit to the building inspector who will review the application for compliance with the zoning
ordinance. If the application demonstrates compliance with the zoning ordinance, the building
inspector shall grant the permit.
9.13.6. Inspections

The building inspector, fire chief, or a person designated by the building inspector or city council, shall
have the right to enter and inspect the dwelling or accessory buildings for compliance purposes
following advance notice to the property owner.

Section 9.14. Drive-in Theaters

The following standards shall apply for drive-in theaters.
9.14.1. The location of any drive-in theater shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission.
9.14.2. A drive-in theatre may be permitted in the B-2 District provided however that the locations
shall be approved by the Planning Commission.
9.14.3. The site must have access to a major public road.
9.14.4. The screen of a drive-in theatre shall be placed a minimum of 100 feet from the public right-
of-way and be located so as to be hidden from the view of traffic contiguous to the entrance and exits
of the site.
9.14.5. The ingress and egress from the highway shall be signed to permit only one-way traffic.
9.14.6. Vehicle standing space shall be provided between the ticket office and the public right-of-
way, for patrons awaiting admission, equal in quantity to not less than 20 percent of the capacity of
the theatre.
9.14.7. All ground areas accessible to vehicles shall be treated with suitable materials to prevent the
formation of dust.
9.14.8. An opaque wall or fence shall be provided of adequate height to screen the patrons and cars
in attendance of the drive-in theatre from the view of surrounding properties.
9.14.9. All parking spaces and access ways shall be adequately lighted, provided, however, that such
lighting shall be shielded to prevent any glare or reflection onto a public street or onto neighboring
properties.
9.14.10. The vehicular approach to the drive-in theatre site from the public thoroughfare or highway

should be so designed that uncontrolled left hand turns from the public thoroughfare or highway to
the site shall be eliminated or reduced by either a frontage roadway or other suitable means.

9.14.11. Sight distances at all points of ingress and egress shall be no less than 1,000 feet, except
where a traffic signal light is installed at the entrance or exit of the site.

Section 9.15. Dwelling, Accessory
9.15.1. The Gross Floor Area of the accessory dwelling shall be at least 600 sq. ft.

9.15.2. If attached to the principal dwelling, the accessory dwelling shall maintain the appearance of
the principal dwelling, and shall not create additional entrances toward the front of the property.

9.15.3. If detached from the principal dwelling, the accessory dwelling shall be limited to the rear of
the principal dwelling or within the upper floor of a garage, and shall be so placed as to avoid
objectionable views from the street and surrounding properties.

9.15.4. Accessory Dwelling in A-R or R-R Districts

A. The owner of the property shall use the manufactured homes for residential purposes or accessory
dwellings for persons employed on the premises and they shall not be used for rental purposes.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 54 -

 




B. Density
Accessory Dwellings in A-R districts may not exceed the following density.
10 Acres to 20 Acres 1 Accessory Dwelling Unit
20 Acres to 40 Acres 2 Accessory Dwelling Unit
40 Acres to 80 Acres 3 Accessory Dwelling Unit

More than 3 accessory dwellings must seek rezoning.

Section 9.16. Dwelling, Duplex
9.16.1. The proposed structure shall meet the setback and side yard requirements as required in the
district where it is to be located.
9.16.2. The minimum lot size shall be 12,000 sq. ft. and not more than two (2) dwelling units per
building shall be permitted.
9.16.3. All parking areas shall be located to the rear of the building and set back at least 20 feet
from the building.

9.16.4. All utilities shall be placed underground; and all duplex units shall be served by public water
and sewer.

Section 9.17. Dwelling, Fourplex

9.17.1. The proposed structure shall meet the setback and side yard requirements as required in the
district where it is to be located

9.17.2. The minimum lot size shall be 24,000 sq. ft. and not more than four (4) dwelling units per
building shall be permitted.

9.17.3. All parking areas shall be located to the rear of the building and set back at least 20 feet
from the building.

9.17.4. All utilities shall be placed underground; and all fourplex units shall be served by public
water and sewer.
Section 9.18. Dwelling, Garden Homes, Patio Homes

9.18.1. Subdivision of lots for garden/patio homes shall be restricted to tracts with a minimum site
area of three (3) acres.

9.18.2. Each home lot shall meet the following dimensional requirements:

- Minimum lot area: 5,500 sq. ft.
- Minimum lot width: 50 feet

- Minimum lot depth: 110 feet

- Minimum front yard: 20 feet

- Minimum side yard: 10 feet

- Minimum rear yard: 15 feet

9.18.3. An attached garage to a dwelling may share a common party wall with an attached garage on
an adjacent lot used for a garden/patio home on either side.

9.18.4. All driveways and garage access must be located at the rear of the structure and accessed
through an alley system.

9.18.5. All yard areas behind the front building line may only be enclosed by an opaque fence or wall
along the side and rear lot lines to form a private yard area of at least 600 sq. ft.. Not less than 100
sq. ft. of the private yard area, with a minimum dimension of 10 feet, shall be a hard-surfaced patio
or porch. Homes on adjacent lots to the rear or sides may own and maintain common party fences or
walls.

9.18.6. All utilities shall be placed underground; and public water and sewer must be available to all
lots.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 55 -

 




: Section 9.19. Dwelling, Townhomes/Attached
9.19.1. Subdivision of lots for townhomes shall be restricted to tracts with a minimum site area of at
least 14,000 sq. ft. The maximum density shall be 10 dwelling units per acre. Not more than eight (8)
contiguous dwelling units shall be permitted.
9.19.2. All driveways and garage access must be located at the rear of the structure and accessed
through an alley system. The alley system shall be of such dimension to allow for garbage and
recycling pickup.
9.19.3. Each townhome lot shall meet the following dimensional requirements:

- Minimum lot area--interior unit: 2,500 sq. ft.
- Minimum lot area--end unit: 4,500 sq. ft.
- Minimum lot width--interior unit: 25 feet
- Minimum lot width--end unit: 45 feet
- Minimum front yard: 20 feet
- Minimum side yard--end unit: 20 feet
- Minimum rear yard: 15 feet

9.19.4. A fenced or walled private yard area, no less than 300 sq. ft. in area, shall be provided on all
lots of less than 7,000 sq. ft. Not less than 100 sq. ft. of the private yard area, with a minimum of ten
feet, shall be a hard-surfaced patio or porch. Townhomes on lots adjacent to the rear or sides of the
development may own and maintain common party fences or walls.

9.19.5. All utilities shall be placed underground and public water and sewer must be available to all
lots.

Section 9.20. Dwelling, Manufactured Homes

Manufactured homes are prohibited in all zoning districts of the City except in A-R or R-R districts as an

accessory dwelling for persons employed on the premises. Manufactured homes are subject to the
~ following supplemental use regulations.

9.20.1. Water and sanitary facilities must be approved by the City of Chelsea and the Shelby County
Health Department.

9.20.2. Manufactured homes shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s installation
instructions and the regulations published by the Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission.

9.20.3. With the exception of access and ventilation openings, which shall be covered with wire
mesh screen, the space beneath each manufactured home shall be enclosed. All enclosing materials
shall be permanently installed and shall be opaque and rust and rot resistant, and shall extend from
the lower edge of the exterior walls of the manufactured home to ground surface of the lot upon
which it is located.

9.20.4. Prior to installation, each manufactured home shall bear a seal certifying compliance with
the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act published by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development. Any existing manufactured home not bearing such a seal shall be
deemed a non-conforming structure and shall be treated as a non-conforming structure in accordance
with the regulations established in Article 12 of this ordinance.

9.20.5. All exterior entrances must have either a landing, a porch, or a deck, which must be a
minimum of five feet in width and all stairways shall have railings. All landings, porches, or decks
must be constructed of wood, brick, or some combination of both.

9.20.6. All towing devices must be removed.

9.20.7. Exterior finish. Any material may be used for exterior finish that is generally used in areas
near the location where the manufactured home is to be sited.

9.20.8. The owner of the property for family shall use the manufactured homes for residential
purposes or accessory dwellings for persons employed on the premises and they shall not be used for
rental purposes.

- 9.20.9. Density
Manufactured homes in A-R districts may not exceed the following density.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 56 -

 




 

10Acresto20Acres ==—*‘1 Accessory Dwelling
20 Acres to 40 Acres 2 Accessory Dwellings
40 Acresto 80 Acres = 3 Accessory Dwellings

More than 3 accessory dwellings must seek rezoning

 

Section 9.21. Dwelling, Upper-Story
9.21.1. Generally. Upper-Story dwellings in mixed-use buildings shall be located on a floor level

above a use of another type (i.e. institutional, office, retail or service, etc.). In all cases, provision of
emergency egress and fire separation shall comply with all requirements of the Chelsea Building Code.

9.21.2. Single-Family Dwelling in a Mixed-Use Building. Single-family dwellings in mixed- use
buildings are primarily intended for the occupancy of the owner or manager of the associated use or
uses within the building. In such cases, the dwelling unit may be accessible from within the associated
use. In all other cases, access to the single-family dwelling unit shall be from the exterior of the
building or another entrance separate from the use(s) within the ground floor of the building.

9.21.3. Multi-Family Dwellings in a Mixed-Use Building. Multi-family dwelling units shall be accessible
from a shared exterior entrance or one interior entrance commonly shared between the different uses
housed in the upper floors of the building. Dwelling units shall not be accessible directly from another
unit or use within the building.

Section 9.22. Manufactured Homes and Trailers, Office Space

9.22.1. Manufactured homes or trailers may be used for sales offices for outside sales or merchandise
such as mobile homes, camping trailers, or automobiles.

9.22.2. The use of manufactured homes or trailers for other business or industrial uses may be
allowed temporarily by temporary use permit approved by the Planning Commission and issued by the
city. The period shall not exceed one year.

9.22.3. Compatibility Standards for Manufactured Homes used for office space must meet the
definition of Dwelling, Single-Family as follows:

A. Manufactured homes used as office space shall be compared to site-built and other housing in the
immediate general area within the same zoning or residential district or area. Approval shall be
granted upon the finding that the Manufactured Home is substantially similar in size, siding material,
roof material, foundation and general aesthetic appearance to: site-built or other forms of office space
which may be permitted in the same general area under this ordinance or existing development or
proposed development in the same zoning district or area. Items subject to compatibility comparison
will include the following:

Minimum Width

The general shape and appearance of the manufactured home shall conform to office building
construction in adjacent or nearby locations to insure compatibility of site-built office space and
manufactured housing.

Roof Pitch, Roof Overhang, Roofing Materials

The general shape and appearance of the roof of the manufactured home shall be compatible with the
exterior appearance of the roofs of office space in adjacent or nearby locations. The minimum roof
pitch shall be 3:12. Any roofing material may be used that will be compatible with other structures in
adjacent or nearby areas.

Exterior Finish
Any material may be used for exterior finish that is generally used in areas near the location where the
manufactured home is to be sited.

Site Orientation
Manufactured homes shall be placed on lots in a manner compatible with and reasonably similar in
orientation to other structures in the area.

Garages, Carports

Garages and/or carports for manufactured homes shall be compatible with the manufactured home and
site-built garages and/or carports of site-built houses in adjacent or nearby locations.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 57 -

 




Towing devices
All towing devices, wheels, axles, and hitches must be removed, if designed to be removed.

Landing, Stairs
At all exit doors, landings and stairs must be provided that meet the minimum Code standards in effect

at the time the manufactured home is sited.

Underpinning
The type of material and method used for underpinning shall be consistent with and compatible to the
underpinning for site-built houses in adjacent or nearby locations.

Section 9.23. Group Homes

9.23.1. A group home shall only be permitted in a detached dwelling unit situated on a lot having a
minimum area of 10,000 sq. ft. and shall provide a minimum of 350 sq. ft. of habitable floor area for
each resident.

9.23.2. General Requirements.

A. There shall be no more than six (6) persons permitted to occupy a group home, excluding staff
personnel.

B. Common kitchen and dining facilities may be provided, however, no cooking or dining facilities shall
be provided in individual resident's rooms.

C. A group home shall be affiliated with a parent organization, which provides for the administration
of the group home through the direction of a professional staff.

D. A group home shall not be located within two thousand (2000) feet of another group home.

E. A group home shall comply with all applicable safety, fire, and accessibility and building codes as
required by federal, state, and local governments. The applicant shall demonstrate compliance with all
State requirements for group homes.

F. A minimum of four (4) off-street parking spaces shall be provided.

G. The applicant shall demonstrate that adequate public sewer and water service is available to the
proposed group home.

Section 9.24. Home Occupations

9.24.1. Background and Intent.
The city recognizes the need to establish regulations pertaining to home-based occupations to afford
opportunities for residents to work from home. Home occupations will particularly benefit individuals
with physical disabilities, as well as those having to care for children or the elderly within their home.
It is the intent of this section to establish regulations, which will permit home occupations in a manner
that will preserve the peace, quiet, and tranquility of residential neighborhoods, and to ensure the
compatibility of such uses with other uses permitted within the same zone.

9.24.2. Classifications of Home Occupations.
All home occupations shall be classified as either "minor home occupations” or "major home
occupations” as defined in Article 3 of this ordinance.

9.24.3. Minor Home Occupations.
To the extent that such uses are consistent with the definition of a “minor home occupation", minor
home occupations shall include but are not limited to the following uses:

A. Professional office uses including realtors and insurance sales.

. Artists, craftsmen, and sculptors.

. Cake baking and decorating.

. Dance instruction.

. Dress making, sewing, tailoring contract sewing (maximum one machine).
. Grooming of dogs and cats.

. Gun repair.

. Computer programming and word processing.

raTmmMU one

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 58 -

 




|. Laundry and ironing services.
© J. Mail order or phone order.
K. Music composing or instruction.
L. Photography.
M. Millinery.
N. Saw, scissors, and blade sharpening.
O. Telephone related services.
P. Television, radio, electronics, and small appliance repair.
Q. Tutoring (limited to a maximum of four (4) students at any one time).
R. Wallpapering.

9.24.4. Major Home Occupations
Major home occupations shall include the following:

A. Any use listed above as a minor home occupation that exceeds the standards specified in §9.24.6.

B. Any home occupation that satisfies the definition of a "major home occupation" as defined in Article
3 of this ordinance.

9.24.5. Uses Not Permitted as Home Occupations.
The following uses by the nature of the investment or operation have a pronounced tendency once
started to rapidly increase beyond the limits permitted for home occupations and thereby impair the
use and values of a residentially-zoned area for residence purposes and are more suited to non-
residential zones. Therefore, the following uses shall not be permitted as home occupations in
residential districts, except as otherwise permitted within A-R zones.

A. Ambulance services.

B. Animal boarding/kennels or veterinary services.

. Appliance repair (major appliances).

. Gift or antique shop.

. Health salon, gym, dance studio, aerobic exercise studio, or massage parlor.
. Helicopter service.

. Limousine, hearse, or cab service.

H. Locksmith.

I. Minor or major repair, detailing, or painting of engines (small or large), vehicles, trailers, or boats.
J. Mortician or funeral home.

K. Palm reading/fortune telling.

L. Material or metal fabrication shops or machine shops.

M. Photo development.

N. Private club.

O. Private school with organized classes.

P. Production woodworking and cabinet making.

Q. Rental services, businesses, or sales from site (except direct distribution).
R. Restaurants or taverns.

S. Towing.

T. Welding shop.

U. Well drilling.

V. Other similar uses, which may, in the opinion of the building inspector, result in an adverse impact
on a residential neighborhood.

t 9.24.6. All dwellings containing a home occupation shall comply with the following:

o7mmMron

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 59 -

 




A. The person conducting the home occupation shall be a full-time resident of the dwelling in which
the home occupation is being conducted.

B. A maximum of 25% of the Gross Floor Area of the dwelling, excluding attics, garages, and
basements, shall be used for any home occupation(s).

C. Not more than one (1) major home occupation shall be permitted within any single dwelling unit.

D. No displays or change in the building facade, including the dwelling and all accessory buildings,
shall indicate from the exterior that the dwelling is being utilized for purposes other than a dwelling.

E. Storage of materials, products, or machinery used for the home occupation shall be wholly enclosed
by the dwelling or accessory building, within the maximum floor area previously defined.

F. The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling or accessory building. The
attached garage or detached garage area may be used for the home occupation purposes provided that
such use does not cause the elimination of the required off-street parking spaces for the dwelling.

G. Deliveries from commercial suppliers shall comply with all applicable state regulations and shall not
restrict traffic circulation.

H. A home occupation shall not produce noise, obnoxious odors, vibrations, lighting glare, fumes,
smoke, or electrical interference detectable to normal sensory perception on any adjacent lots or
streets.

|. There shall be no illegal discharge of any materials, fluids, or gases into the sewage disposal
facilities or in any other manner that would be in violation of any applicable governmental law, rule, or
regulation.

J. Sales of goods on the premises shall be limited to goods lawfully made on the premises; goods
relating to services performed on the premises; or goods ordered previously by telephone or at a prior
sales meeting, that are not made on the premises and that do not relate to services performed on the
premises.

K. Home occupations shall not involve the use or storage of explosive, highly combustible, or
hazardous materials.

L. “Parties” for the purpose of taking orders for the selling of merchandise shall not be held more than
one (1) time per week.

M. The size of commercial vehicles used for the home occupation shall not exceed 20 feet in overall
length or seven (7) feet in height and shall not have a load capacity in excess of one (1) ton.

9.24.7. Application and Permitting Procedure.

Home occupations shall be subject to the following application and approval process:

A. All people engaged in home occupations shall obtain an appropriate business license from the city.
B. Minor Home Occupations - No application required.

C. Major Home Occupations - All major home occupations shall be subject to the following application
and approval process:

The applicant shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this ordinance and shall request
a Special Exception from the Board of Zoning Adjustment.

If a special exception is granted, the applicant shall submit an application for a Major Home
Occupation Permit to the building inspector. After confirming that the conditions of the Board have
been satisfied, the building inspector shall issue the permit. Such review of the application may
require the building inspector to visit the dwelling if deemed necessary.

Major Home Occupation Permits shall expire one year from the date of issuance, and once granted
may be renewed without additional hearings, subject to the provisions of this section. An application
form for permit renewal must be completed and submitted to the building inspector with the annual
permit fee prior to the annual deadline but not earlier than 30 days. Failure to renew or pay any
required fees shall be grounds for revocation of a permit.

The annual fee for a Major Home Occupation Permit shall be established by the city council.

9.24.8. Inspections.
The building inspector, or a person designated by the building inspector or city council, shall have the

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 60 -

 




right to enter and inspect the dwelling or accessory buildings for compliance purposes following
advance notice to the property owner.

Section 9.25. Independent Living Facilities

9.25.1. Single Building

A. Entrances to individual units shall be from the interior of the building. Mailboxes and laundry rooms
shall also be within the same building.

B. Parking areas shall be setback no less than 15 feet from the building and a sidewalk of no less than
five (5) feet in width shall be provided between the building and parking area.

C. No less than 20% of the site area shall be improved for the passive recreational use of tenants.

D. All utilities shall be placed underground; and all independent living facilities shall be served by
public water and sewer.

9.25.2. Complex
A. Minimum site area: 12,000 sq. ft.

B. All buildings shall be set back at least 15 feet from all parking areas. A sidewalk of no less than five
(5) feet in width shall be provided between all buildings and parking areas.

C. Buildings shall be spaced front-to-front, front-to-rear, front-to-side, and rear-to-rear at least to a
distance equal to twice the tallest building height and spaced side-to-side and side-to-rear at least to a
distance equal to the tallest building height.

D. No less than 20% of the site area, and not less than 2,500 sq. ft., shall be improved for the passive
recreational use of tenants.

E. All utilities shall be placed underground; and all independent living complexes shall be served by
public water and sewer.

Section 9.26. Industrial Uses
All industrial uses shall conform to the following standards:

9.26.1. All industrial operations shall be in compliance with all state and federal government
regulations as required by the most recent regulations made available by these governmental bodies,
including but not limited to noise, air pollution, vibration, radiation, and the pollution of
groundwater, surface water, and soils.

9.26.2. Odor. Emission of odorous gases or other odorous matter in such quantities as to be offensive
at any lot line shall not be permitted.

9.26.3. Toxic Gases. All industrial uses shall emit no noxious, toxic, or corrosive fumes or gases.

9.26.4. Glare and Heat. All industrial uses shall carry on no operations that would produce heat or
glare beyond the lot line of the lot on which the industrial operation is located.

9.26.5. Waste Products. Storage of waste materials shall not be permitted except in an enclosed
building or approved containers. No potentially dangerous effluent shall be discharged.

9.26.6. Screening. Where any industrial parcel is contiguous to a residential or commercial zone or to
a public right-of-way, all outdoor storage areas shall be screened from such districts and said public
right-of-way by a landscape screen or other visual barrier with plantings. The landscape screen shall
be composed of evergreen plants and trees arranged to form both a low level and a high level screen.
The high level screen shall consist of evergreen trees planted at an initial height of not less than four
(4) feet and planted at intervals of not more than 10 feet. The low level screen shall consist of two
rows of evergreen shrubs or hedges planted at an initial height of not less than two (2) feet and
spaced at intervals of not more than five (5) feet. The low level screen plantings shall be placed in an
alternating or staggered pattern to produce a more effective visual barrier. An alternative visual
barrier shall be a six (6) foot high opaque fence or wall with plantings of trees, shrubs, and/or vines
along the outside surfaces of the fence or wall.

9.26.7. Landscaping. Any part or portion of the site that is not used for buildings, other structures,
loading or parking spaces, aisles, sidewalks, and designated storage areas, shall be provided with an
all-season ground cover.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 61 -

 




9.26.8. Access and Traffic Control. Access to and from the site shall be designed in a manner
conducive to safe ingress and egress. The developer shall be responsible for the construction of any
necessary traffic control devices or additional lanes required by the Alabama Department of
Transportation. All entrances and exits shall conform to the applicable driveway regulations of this
ordinance.

Section 9.27. Kennels and Animal Shelters.
9.27.1. Kennels and animal shelters shall not be located within 200 feet of an R1 or R2 zone.
9.27.2. Not more than 20 animals shall be housed or boarded at any one time. Overnight boarding
areas shall be completely enclosed within the building.
9.27.3. Outdoor runs shall be located to the rear of the building and all such areas visible from a
public right-of-way shall be enclosed with a wooden privacy fence or similar weather-resistant,
durable, and opaque material. Fences (or walls) shall not be less than four (4) feet nor greater than
eight (8) feet in height.
9.27.4. All waste material shall be stored in closed containers and screened from all streets and
adjoining properties by a fence, wall, or plant screen at least as high as the containers.

9.27.5. Emission of any offensive odors is not permitted at any time.

Section 9.28. Manufactured Home Parks
The following property development standards shall apply for all existing manufactured home parks
hereinafter altered.
9.28.1. No parcel of land containing less than ten acres and less than ten (10) manufactured home
spaces, available at the time of first occupancy, shall be used for a manufactured home park.
9.28.2. The manufactured home park shall be constructed so as to provide adequate light and air and
to avoid undue congestion; provided, however, there shall be not less than 7,500 sq. ft. of area for
each space provided on the site. This space ratio shall include access roads, automobile parking,
accessory building space, and recreation area.
9.28.3. The manufactured home park shall be located on a well-drained site, shall be so located that
its drainage will not endanger any water supply, and shall be in conformity with all applicable health
and sanitation regulations in force by the County Health Officer.
9.28.4. Location
A. The location of manufactured home parks shall be approved by the Planning Commission.
B. A supplemental use for the purpose of establishing a manufactured home park may be permitted
only in the A-R district.
C. The location of any manufactured home of the park must be at least 30 feet from any permanent
residential building located outside the park, unless separated there from by a natural or artificial
barrier.
9.28.5. Yards

A. Each manufactured home park shall have a front yard of not less than 50 feet extending for the full
width of the parcel devoted to said use.

B. Each manufactured home park shall have a rear yard and a side yard on both sides of the parcel
devoted to said use of not less than 15 feet.

C. Where a side or rear yard abuts a street, the yard shall not be less than twenty-five feet and all
yards shall be landscaped and maintained.

D. No building or structure erected or stationed in the park shall have a height greater than 2% stories
or thirty-five (35) feet.

E. Each manufactured home park shall be permitted to display on each street frontage, one
identifying sign of a maximum size of twelve (12) sq. ft. Said sign shall contain thereon only the name,
address of the manufactured home park, and may be lighted by indirect lighting only.

9.28.6. Spaces

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 62 -

 




A. Each manufactured home space shall be of sufficient size that, in addition to the trailer, the
following areas shall be provided:

B. Each manufactured home space shall be at least forty-five (45) feet wide and seventy (70) feet
deep, and such space shall be clearly defined by permanent markers.

C. There shall be a front yard setback of at least ten (10) feet from all access roads within the
manufactured home park.

D. Manufactured homes shall be so harbored on each space that there shall be at least twenty (20)
feet clearance between manufactured homes or any attachments thereto; provided however, with
respect to manufactured homes parked end-to-end, the end-to-end clearance shall be not less than
fifteen (15) feet. No manufactured home shall be located closer than twenty (20) feet from any
building within the park.

E. There shall be at least one off-street parking space for each trailer space that shall be on the same
site or located in grouped parking bays specifically designed for such purpose close to the site served.

F. Each manufactured home space shall be provided with a paved patio of at least two hundred (200)
sq. ft.; and may provide a metal storage locker or locker fabricated of some suitable material such as
concrete blocks or brick, but shall not contain wood siding. Storage lockers shall be located in locker
compounds established in the rear of the manufactured home spaces. Such lockers shall be located at
least ten (10) feet from trailer coaches.

G. A docking pad containing a minimum of four (4) inches of compacted gravel, or other suitable
pavement material, shall be provided for each trailer space.

9.28.7. General Provisions
A. There shall be established and maintained within each park an automobile parking area for the use
of guests. The number of parking spaces within the area shall be equal to one (1) for every four (4)
trailer sites.

B. Access roads within a manufactured home park shall be paved to a width of not less than twenty-
three (23) feet. Where access roads are paved to a width of thirty (30) feet or more, the required off-
street guest parking spaces shall be waived.

C. Each manufactured home space shall be provided with a connection to a sanitary sewer line or toa
sewer system approved by the Health Department.

D. An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water approved by the Health Officer shall be
provided in each manufactured home park.

E. Refuse storage, collection and disposal shall be in conformity with the laws and regulations
prescribed by the Health Department.

F. There shall be provided a park and recreation area having a minimum of one hundred and fifty

(150) sq. ft. for each manufactured home space. Areas shall be consolidated into usable areas with
minimum dimensions of not less than thirty (30) feet.

G. Only factory prefabricated portable attachments or awnings may be attached to or become a part
of any manufactured home. No permanent addition of any kind shall be built onto, nor become a part
of any trailer coach. However, skirting of coaches is permissible.

H. Manufactured homes shall not be used for commercial, industrial, or other non-residential uses
within the manufactured home park.

9.28.8. Application for Permits.
An application to the Planning Commission for permission to establish a manufactured home park shall
be as regulated hereunder in this section of the ordinance. The following information shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission.

A. The location and legal description of the proposed manufactured home park.

B. Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements, and facilities constructed or to be
constructed within the manufactured home park.

C. The proposed use of buildings shown on the site.
D. The location and size of all manufactured home spaces.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 63 -

 




 

E. The location of all points of entry and exit for vehicles and internal circulation pattern.

F. The location of all landscaping to be provided.

G. The location of all lighting to be provided.

H. The location of walls, fences, and the indication of their height and materials of construction.
I. The location of all off-street parking facilities.

J. Such other architectural and engineering data as may be required to permit the Health Officer or
Planning Commission to determine if the provisions of this ordinance are being complied with.

K. A time schedule for development shall be prepared which shall demonstrate the applicant’s
readiness and ability to provide the proposed services. Said time shall be, for a period of not more than
one (1) year.

9.28.9. General Regulations.

A. Additions or alterations. Any additions or alterations to existing manufactured home parks or parks
hereinafter established shall be in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.

B. Conformance. Every manufactured home park in existence upon the effective date of this ordinance
may be maintained and operated for an indefinite period without being subject to the provisions of this
ordinance; provided, however, that such parks comply with all applicable health regulations and
specifications. All manufactured home parks created or established after the effective date of this
ordinance shall conform to the specifications and requirements as set forth herein.

C. Supervision. The owner or permittee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker shall be in charge
at all times to keep the manufactured home park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly,
sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee or permittee, for
the violation of any provision of this ordinance to which the license or permittee is subject.

D. Maintenance of Register. Every manufactured home park owner or operator shall maintain a
register containing a record of all manufactured homes and occupants using the manufactured home
park. Such register shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the court, and shall be
preserved for the period required by the Planning Commission. Such register shall contain (1) the
names and addresses of all manufactured home occupants stopping in the park, (2) the make, model,
and license number of each motor vehicle and manufactured home, (3) the state, territory, or county
issuing the licenses and (4) the dates of arrival and departure of each manufactured home.

E. Revocation of permit. The Planning Commission or Health Department may revoke any permit to
maintain and operate a park if the permittee fails to comply with the regulations of this ordinance. The
permit may be reissued if the circumstances leading to revocation have been remedied and the park is
being maintained in full compliance with the law.

Section 9.29. Mini-warehouses, Mini-storage
9.29.1. No individual storage space shall exceed 400 sq. ft. in area. .

9.29.2. All storage space shall be served by a paved driveway of 24 feet minimum width.
The entire site shall be enclosed by security fencing of eight feet minimum height and be lit with night
sky lighting throughout.

9.29.3. No storage space shall be used for other than storage purposes.

Section 9.30. Places of Worship

9.30.1. Places of Worship as special exception in B-1, B-2, and M-1 shall subscribe to all requirements
of the district.

9.30.2. Places of Worship may be a supplemental use in PRD, and PMD and shall subscribe to all
requirements of the district.
Section 9.31. Pub Restaurants

9.31.1. A dining area shall be provided of at least 800 sq. ft. and equipped with tables and chairs
accommodating at least 25 persons at one time.

9.31.2. At least one meal shall be served per day of operation.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 64 -

 




9.31.3. Such place shall be duly licensed by the ABC Board for the sale of liquor, malt or brewed
beverages, and/or table wines for on-premises consumption.

9.31.4. The serving of such food or meals shall constitute the principal business of such
establishment, with the serving of liquor, malt or brewed beverages and/or table wines being only an
incidental part of the business. During any 90-day period, the gross receipts from the serving of meals
and food shall constitute 70 percent or more of the gross receipts of the business.

Section 9.32. Railroad Facilities
9.32.1. Railroad facilities, including main line tracks, switching spurs, control signals, poles, and
wires or similar facilities (but not yards or service facilities) needed for operating railroad trains, may
be constructed, repaired, maintained, or replaced in any district.

Section 9.33. Temporary Outdoor Sales

9.33.1. Applicability. This section sets standards for temporary outdoor sales activities, including

produce stands and seasonal sales. Permanent outdoor retail sales as a principal use shall be subject

to all provisions of the zones in which they occur.

9.33.2. General requirements. The following standards apply to all temporary outdoor retail sales

activities unless otherwise provided by this section.

A. All businesses operating from temporary outdoor locations shall have a current business license or
permit to operate issued by the City of Chelsea.

B. Hours of operation. All sales facilities, signs, and any related vehicles shall be removed from the
site at the close of daily business. All lighting shall be turned off with the exception of minor lighting
attached to the structure. Night operations are allowed only when specifically authorized through
temporary use permit.

C. Parking requirement. None, provided sufficient open area is available to accommodate all
employee and customer parking needs on the site, entirely outside of public rights-of-way other than
designated on-street parking spaces.

D. Food sales. The sale of raw or processed foodstuffs is subject to the applicable regulations of the
Shelby County Health Department.

E. Setback. All sales areas shall be setback from adjacent rights-of-way no less than thirty (30) feet.

F. Permission of Property Owner. Where the vendor is other than the property owner, the vendor shall
provide the code enforcement officer or other designated city official a written agreement signed by
the property owner authorizing the temporary use of the property by the vendor for temporary outdoor
sales.

G. Association with an Existing Building. Generally, temporary outdoor sales shall occur only on lots
with an existing, occupied building. However, exceptions may be specifically authorized through
temporary use permit approval.

9.33.3. Produce Stand. A produce stand pursuant to this section is the temporary use of a site for the

sale of food and farm produce items from a structure intended for that purpose or from parked

vehicles and requires a temporary use permit.

A. Limitation on use. Produce stands are limited to the sale of food and produce items, including raw
and prepared foodstuffs, plants, and cut flowers. Livestock and poultry are prohibited.

B. Duration of use. Produce stands shall occur no more than three (3) days per week on any site,
unless otherwise provided for in the applicable zone.

9.33.4. Seasonal Sales. Seasonal sales include the retail sale of holiday vegetation, including

pumpkins and Christmas trees or other similar activity. Seasonal sales shall be of a non-commercial

nature and sponsored by a group of persons residing in the city. Such sales shall register with the city
and shall not be required to obtain a temporary use permit.

A. Time limit. The length of time during which seasonal sales may occur is limited to 30 days.
B. Hours of operation. 8:00 am to 9:00 pm for seasonal sales.

Section 9.34. Temporary Structures

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 65 -

 




Temporary structures for use incidental to construction work may be permitted in any district during
the period that construction work is in progress, but such temporary building shall be removed upon
completion or abandonment of the construction work.

Section 9.35. Public Utility Facilities

9.35.1. Location.

A. Public utility facilities shall be situated on site to minimize visibility from adjacent businesses and
dwellings through the use of existing topography and vegetation and further situated to maximize
distance between any buildings on adjacent lots.

B. The facility and its perimeter screening shall be setback no less than 50 feet from any non-
residential building and no less than 100 feet from any dwelling.

9.35.2. Landscaping Buffer and Screening.

A. A landscaped buffer shall effectively screen the view of the facility from adjacent public ways and
residential properties.

B. The required buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip of at least 15 feet in width along the
perimeter of the facility. The buffer strip shall be planted in accordance with the landscaping
standards of 86.8.

C. For sites within 1,000 feet of a residence, screening shall include a decay-resistant, solid wood
fence, brick or masonry walls, or a combination thereof.

D. All fencing and landscaping shall be maintained by the utility.

E. In locations where the visual impact of the facility would be minimal, such as remote, agricultural,
or rural locations, or developed heavy industrial areas, the landscaping requirements may be reduced
or waived by the Planning Commission.

F. Existing mature tree growth on the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some
cases, such as towers located on large, wooded lots, preservation of substantial natural growth around
the property perimeter may be a sufficient buffer.

9.35.3. Security Devices. The facility shall be fully secured. A minimum eight feet (8’) high, dark
vinyl coated steel or wood fence, a brick or masonry wall, or combination thereof shall be installed
around the entire perimeter of the facility. Security fencing shall require screening in accordance with
landscaping requirements, as defined above. Other security measures shall include locks and alarms.
Approved barbed or razor wire and lighting of the facility shall be permitted, if deemed necessary to
fully secure the facility.

9.35.4. Access. Driveways and parking shall be provided to assure access to the facility for
maintenance or emergency services. In some cases, parking/access may be from an adjoining alley,
public street, or off-street parking area.

9.35.5. Public utility facilities, including, but not limited to, poles, wires, cross arms, transformers
attached to poles, guy wires, insulators, conduits and other facilities necessary for the transmission or
distribution of electric power or to provide telephone or telegraph service and pipe lines, vents,
valves, hydrants, regulators, meters and other facilities necessary for the transmission or distributions
of gas, oil, water or other fluids, may be constructed, erected, repaired, maintained, or replaced
within any district in the City of Chelsea. This is not to be construed to include the erection or
construction of buildings or electric substations.

Section 9.36. Veterinary Clinics, Veterinary Hospitals

9.36.1. General Requirements.
Veterinary facilities shall not be located within 200 feet of an E-1, R-1, R-2, or a PRD zone.

A. All areas where animals have access or are kept shall be soundproofed to contain all sounds on-site
prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.

B. All waste material shall be stored in closed containers that are screened from all streets and
adjoining properties by a fence, wall, or plant screen at least as high as the containers.

C. Emission of any offensive odors is not permitted at any time.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 66 -

 




Section 9.37. Wireless Telecommunications Services and Facilities

9.37.1. Purpose.

The purpose of this section is to establish minimum standards for wireless telecommunications
facilities. The underlying principles of these standards are as follows:

A. To achieve a balance among the number, height, and density of wireless telecommunications
facilities that is appropriate for our communities.

B. To encourage and maximize the use of existing and approved towers, buildings, and other
structures to accommodate new wireless telecommunications facilities.

C. To ensure the compatibility of towers with, and avoid adverse impacts to nearby properties.
D. To discourage the proliferation of towers throughout the City of Chelsea.

9.37.2. Objectives. The proposed locations and design of all communication towers shall consider the
following public health, safety, and general welfare objectives:

A. Structural Safety. The proposed tower will comply with wind loading and other structural standards

contained in applicable building and technical codes so as not to endanger the health and safety of
residents, employees, or travelers in the event of structural failure of the tower due to extreme
weather conditions or other acts of God.

B. View Protection. The proposed tower facility will be designed to minimize adverse visual impacts to
surrounding properties and the public right-of-way, given the topography of the proposed site and
surrounding area.

C. Land Use Compatibility. The proposed tower facility will be compatible with the surrounding land
uses, given the character of the use and development of the location.

D. Design Harmony. The proposed tower facility will be designed in harmony with the natural setting
and the surrounding development pattern as well as to the highest industry standards.

E. Existing Communication Services. The proposed tower facility will comply with FCC and other
applicable agency standards so as not to interfere with existing communication services in the area.

F. Health Effects. The proposed tower will comply with all applicable federal, state, county, and city
health standards so as not to cause detrimental health effects to persons in the surrounding area.

9.37.3. Applicability. All communication towers and antennae shall meet the minimum requirements
as prescribed in this ordinance and any additional regulations adopted by the city council governing
the development and construction of communication towers and antennae.

9.37.4. Definitions.

A. Accessory Structure Compound. A_ fenced, secured enclosure in which a_ wireless
telecommunications facility and its equipment, buildings, access roads, parking area, and other
accessory devices/auxiliary structures are located. The outline of an accessory structure compound
shall be accurately defined on a site plan.

B. Alternative Support Structure. Any structure other than a wireless telecommunications tower,
which may include, but is not limited to, buildings, water towers, light poles, power poles, telephone
poles, and other essential public utility facilities.

C. Antenna. An electromagnetic device, which conducts radio signals, through an attached cable or
waveguide, to or from a radio transmitter or receiver. Typically, this includes “whips,” “cornucopia
horns,” “panels”, and parabolic “dishes.”

D. Antenna Support Structure. Any structure on which telecommunications antennas and cabling can
be attached. Typically this includes steel towers with guy-wires (guyed towers); wooden, steel, or
concrete single poles (monopoles); self-supporting steel towers with three or four “legs” (self-
support/lattice towers); and rooftops of existing buildings or structures (such as elevated water storage
tanks). (See also tower).

E. Co-location. The placement of more than one wireless communications antenna by one or more
telecommunications service providers on a single existing or new antenna support structure.

F. Concealment Techniques. Concealment techniques are methods used to blend a wireless
telecommunications facility, including any antennas thereon, unobtrusively into the existing

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 67 -

 




surroundings so as to not have the appearance of a wireless telecommunications facility. Such
structures shall be considered wireless telecommunications facilities and not spires, belfries, cupolas,
or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level for purposes of applying
height limitations. Due to their height, such structures must be designed with sensitivity to elements
such as building bulk, massing, and architectural treatment of both the wireless telecommunications
facility and surrounding development. Concealed towers on developed property must be disguised to
appear as either a part of the structure housing, a principal use, or an accessory structure that is
normally associated with the principal use occupying the property. Concealed towers developed on
unimproved property must be disguised to blend in with existing vegetation. Example: A tower of such
design and treated with architectural material so camouflaged to resemble a woody tree with a single
trunk and branches on its upper part (also known as a “monopine”).

G. FAA. Federal Aviation Administration.
H. FCC. Federal Communications Commission.

|. Height. When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured from the ground level
at the base of the tower to the highest point on the tower or other structure, including if said highest
point is an antenna placed on a structure or tower.

J. Private Telecommunications Operation. The use of a telecommunications facility to provide
communications services internal to the facility owner or to its affiliates, provided that there is no fee
charged for or lease of the communication services and provided further that such communication
services are only accessory to the principal use of the owner’s property on which they are located.

K. Temporary Telecommunications Tower. Mobile wireless telecommunications towers mounted upon
trailers, operated temporarily, which are also known as “cellular’s on wheels” (COWs).

L. Tower. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one

“or more antenna, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers, or monopole towers. The term
includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular
telephone towers and the like. (See also antenna support structure).

9.37.5. Procedures.

A. Permit Requirements. All wireless telecommunications facilities are subject to the standards
contained in this section and will be required to receive a use permit from the city clerk prior to being
granted a building permit.

B. Application. Any application submitted for approval shall include the following items, in addition to
any other required items, to show compliance with these review standards.

Statement of Impact on Health, Safety, and Welfare. A brief written statement shall address
conformance with the health, safety, and welfare objectives of this guideline.

Site Plan. A scaled site plan shall show the location and dimensions of all improvements, including
setbacks, drives, parking, fencing, landscaping, and other information necessary to determine
compliance with the development criteria of these guidelines.

Rendering. A rendering of the tower, accessory facilities, and compound shall depict colors, materials,
and treatment. If lighting or other FAA requirements for tower color is proposed, evidence of such
requirement shall be submitted.

Justification for a New Tower. A proposal for a new tower shall include documentation showing that
the planned equipment for a proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing tower within the
proposed service area. The applicant shall submit a written affidavit showing what attempts have
been made to share an existing tower or that no such tower exists.

Certification of Shared Use Design. A qualified engineer, registered in the State of Alabama, shall
certify that the proposed tower’s structural design can accommodate a minimum of two (2) shared
users

As Built Survey. A qualified professional engineer, licensed in the State of Alabama, shall certify that
the proposed communication tower was built in accordance with the submitted site plan including the
installation of any required buffer yard.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 68 -

 




Capacity. The application shall include the total anticipated capacity of the structure including the
number and types of antennae that can be accommodated.

Safety. Mitigation measures for ice and other hazardous falling debris, including setbacks and de-icing
equipment, must be included.

Parking. Where applicable, adequate parking shall be provided, along with buffers where such tower
abuts any residential zone. Such towers shall be prohibited in any residential zone of the City of
Chelsea, Alabama.

C. Additional Application Requirements. In addition to the submittal requirements for zoning approval,
applications for wireless communication services shall include the following:

A network design plan for all of the service provider's existing and planned sites in the city and
surrounding jurisdictions. The network design plan shall indicate the location of existing and proposed
facilities and the service area covered by each site.

A qualified electrical engineer licensed by the State of Alabama shall prepare an evaluation of the
radio frequency (RF) field exposure conditions of the facility demonstrating that the radiation levels
generated by the facility meet federal standards and that interference to consumer electronic
products is unlikely to occur. The evaluation shall include the following:

The maximum exposure conditions directly adjacent to the antenna and at the closest point the public
could come into contact with radiation, including upper floors of residential, institutional, or
commercial buildings.

The maximum cumulative exposure conditions of all personal wireless services and facilities within the
vicinity.

Certification shall be provided by the electrical engineer prior to final inspection of the facility that
the RF field exposure conditions are per the submitted evaluation.

Visual representations sufficient to accurately show the appearance of the proposed facility, such as
photomontages, mock-ups, and story poles. When feasible, scaled mock-ups shall be constructed on
site.

The city may require a co-location agreement binding the applicant and property owner to make the
facility available in the future for the installation of additional communication equipment by other
wireless communication providers.

If the facility is abandoned in the future, the applicant shall be required to remove the wireless
communication antennas and equipment from the site.

Wireless communication services and all equipment, such as emergency generators and air
conditioners, shall be designed to be in compliance with the city noise ordinance.

D. Exempt Facilities. The following facilities are exempt from these standards and from any
requirement to obtain a permit subject to this section:

Amateur radio and receive-only antenna owned and operated by a federally licensed radio station
operator or used exclusively for receive-only antennas.

Telecommunications facilities for private communication operation less than or equal to 75 feet in
height or mounted on a structure that is accessory to the principal use of the owner’s property on
which it is located.

E. Temporary Installations. Temporary telecommunications towers shall be allowed for a period not to
exceed one year with approval from the City of Chelsea Planning Commission. Requests for temporary
use permits for self-supporting towers shall be accepted only for sites that are already approved for a
permanent tower structure. An application for a temporary tower may be made simultaneously with an
application for a permanent tower. All portions of the temporary self-supporting towers and its support
structures, including guy wires, shall fall within the property or compound boundaries that are
approved specifically for wireless telecommunications facility use. A temporary tower shall not exceed
the height of a permanent tower approved for a particular site. These regulations shall not apply to
portable mobile emergency or test tower facilities.

F. Design Requirements — Personal Wireless Service and Facilities. The following specific design
requirements shall apply to each type of personal wireless service and facility:

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 69 -

 




Building Mounted Antennas.

Building mounted personal wireless services shall not exceed ten feet above the building surface on
which they are located. An additional one (1) foot of height may be added for every 10 feet the
antenna is set back from the building parapet, to a maximum height of fifteen feet above the surface
on which it is located.

Building mounted antennas shall be architecturally integrated with the building design in such a
manner as to be visually unobtrusive.

Building mounted antennas shall be painted to match the existing building.

Building mounted antenna equipment facilities shall be screened from public view.

Distributed, Repeater, or Microcell Antenna Systems

Distributed, repeater, or microcell antenna systems mounted on buildings within non-residential zones
shall conform to the height limit of the zone within which the subject building is located.

Distributed, repeater, or microcell antenna systems mounted on utility poles or other public utility
facilities within the public right-of-way in any zone shall be limited in height to the height of that
particular structure.

Distributed, repeater, or microcell antenna systems shall be designed to minimize their visibility on
utility poles or other structures.

Distributed, repeater, or microcell antenna systems’ equipment facilities shall be screened from public
view.

9.37.6. Standards for Approval.
A permit for a wireless telecommunications facility may be approved by the Planning Commission only
upon determination that the application and evidence presented clearly indicate that all of the
following standards have been met.

A. Location and Facility Height
Permissible locations and facility heights are shown in Table 9-1.

Table 9-1 Location and Facility Height (Wireless Facilities)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Zoning Districts
E-1,  R-1,

WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS A-R, R-R, | R-2,
FACILITIES PRD, PMD B-1 O-I, B-2 M-1
Alternative support structures Permitted Permitted Permitted | Permitted
Co-location antennas Permitted Permitted Permitted | Permitted
Use of concealment techniques (antenna
support structures of any height) Permitted Permitted Permitted | Permitted
Antenna support structures up to 60' in
height Permitted Permitted Permitted | Permitted
Antenna support structures 61’ to 200° in
height Prohibited Prohibited | Permitted | Permitted
Antenna support structures 201° to 260' in
height Prohibited Prohibited | Prohibited | Prohibited
Antenna support structures 261' in height or
more Prohibited Prohibited | Prohibited | Prohibited

 

 

 

 

 

Towers and/or antennas utilizing alternative support structures shall not exceed 15 feet in height
above the existing structure on which they are placed.

“Whips,” “panels,” cornucopia horns, and parabolic “dishes” placed on alternative support structures
shall not exceed 100 sq. ft. in size.

B. Area and Dimensional Regulations.
Lot size must conform to the minimum lot size required for the underlying zoning district.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -70-

 

 




The minimum lot size for any new freestanding wireless telecommunications facility shall be large
enough to allow for the antenna support structure and ground-mounted accessory structures of the
applicant and the ground-mounted accessory structures at least one additional co-locating service
provider.

If only a portion of a parcel is being leased for a wireless telecommunications facility, the lease parcel
must be situated within the parent parcel so that the wireless telecommunications facility complies
with the applicable antenna support structure setback requirements.

C. Setbacks.
Wireless telecommunications towers, guys, and accessory facilities must satisfy the minimum yard

requirements of the zoning district in which they are located. The use of concealment techniques does
not exempt a wireless telecommunications facility from any minimum yard requirements.

Towers (but not guys and accessory facilities) must adhere to additional setbacks indicated in the
following table. Tower setbacks do not apply to alternative support structures.

Table 9-2 Tower Setback Requirements

TOWER SETBACKS

When the property on which
the tower is located is
zoned... The setback from all property lines is...

A-R, PRD, PMD 50' (for towers of any height)...(Additional setback
applies if tower is adjacent to a residentially-zoned
property - see (c) below.)

R-R, E-1, R-1, R-2, B-1 A distance equaling the height of the tower

O-I, B-2 50' (for towers of any height)...(Additional setback
applies if tower is adjacent to a residentially-zoned
property - see (c) below.)

M-1 30' (for towers of any height)...(Additional setback
applies if tower is adjacent to a residentially-zoned
property - see (c) below.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Towers must be placed no closer than a distance equal to the height of the wireless
telecommunications facility from any residential structure on adjacent property.

9.37.7. Co-location.

A. No new antenna support structure shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates that no
existing antenna support structure or other structure can accommodate the applicant’s needs.

B. Documentation that reasonable efforts have been made to achieve co-location shall be submitted.
Applications for new antenna support structures must include an affidavit from the applicant verifying
that no existing sites are available for co-location. If the owner of an approved antenna support
structure refuses to allow a co-location, an affidavit shall be required that states the reason for the
refusal.

C. Antenna support structures less than or equal to 200 feet in height shall have the ability to
accommodate at least one additional antenna, unless they would cause the height of the antenna
support structure to be increased. Antenna support structures greater than 200 feet in height, if
permitted, shall have the ability to accommodate at least two additional antennas.

D. Co-location is not required if the use of concealment techniques is prohibitive to co-location
efforts.

E. The City of Chelsea may request of the owner/operator of wireless telecommunications facility
permission to place weather warning equipment, such as horns and sirens, on a tower of a wireless
telecommunications facility, which request may be refused by the owner/operator should such warning
equipment interfere with the operation of the wireless telecommunications facility.

9.37.8. Aesthetics.
The aesthetic properties of each individual wireless telecommunications facility shall be approved as

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -71-

 




part of the site plan review process.

A. Appearance. The design of the tower shall be of a type that has the least visual impact on the
surrounding area. Towers shall maintain a galvanized steel or concrete finish so as to reduce the
visibility of the structure unless other standards are required by the FAA.

B. Towers and antennas shall be painted a neutral or blending color so as to reduce visual
obtrusiveness, unless subject to any applicable FAA standards. If an antenna is installed on a structure
other than a tower, the antenna and supporting telecommunications facilities must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure.

C. No signage, symbols, or advertisements may be attached to the pole, tower, or antenna.

D. Camouflaged Towers.

Concealed towers on developed property must be disguised to appear as either a part of the structure
housing a principal use or an accessory structure that is normally associated with the principal use
occupying the property.

Concealed towers developed on unimproved property must be disguised to blend in with existing
vegetation. Example: A tower of such design and treated with architectural material so camouflaged
to resemble a woody tree with a single trunk and branches on its upper part (also known as a
“monopine”).

Towers camouflaged to resemble woody trees or indigenous vegetation in order to blend in with the
native landscape will be subject to administrative review, as are other types of concealment
techniques.

9.37.9. Accessory Structures.

A. The design of the compound and its accessory structures shall, to the extent possible, maximize use
of building materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping that effectively blend the tower
facilities within the surrounding natural setting and built environment.

B. In or adjacent to developed properties, accessory structures must be aesthetically and
architecturally compatible with the surrounding environment. Materials such as wood, brick, and
stucco should be used as appropriate. The use of metal or metallic-looking materials shall be avoided
in as much as shall be practical.

9.37.10. Non-vegetative Screening.

A. Non-vegetative screening will be required when it is necessary to reduce the visual impact of a
wireless telecommunications compound on adjacent public ways, properties or the neighborhood in
which it is located. In or adjacent to developed properties, non-vegetative screening shall be provided
in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding character of development, buildings, natural
vegetation, and landscaping. Such screening, as required and subject to site plan review, shall have a
minimum height of eight (8) feet, and may consist of one of the following: brick masonry walls, solid
wood fencing, berms, or opaque barriers. All non-vegetative screening shall be properly maintained by
the property owner or lessor.

B. In isolated non-residential areas, alternative non-vegetative screening methods may be accepted,
such as the use of earth-toned, vinyl-coated steel security fencing.

C. In certain locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, such as remote,
agricultural or rural locations or developed heavy industrial areas, the non-vegetative screening
requirement may be reduced or waived.

D. Wireless telecommunications facilities utilizing underground vaults rather than aboveground
equipment buildings may be exempted from any buffer requirements.

9.37.11. Landscaping.

A. A landscaped buffer shall effectively screen the view of the tower compound from adjacent public
ways and residential properties.

B. The standard buffer shall consist of a minimum eight (8) feet wide landscaped strip outside the dark
vinyl coated steel security fencing of the perimeter of the compound. The buffer strip shall be planted
with an attractive combination of trees, shrubs, vines, and/or ground covers that can achieve the full
height of the fence at maturity and enhances the outward appearance of the security fence. For sites

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -72 -

 




within 1,000 feet of a residence, the site review by the Planning Commission may impose increased
buffer standards to include a decay-resistant, solid wood fence, earth berms, and brick or masonry
walls in addition to the security fencing. All fencing and landscaping shall be maintained by the
lessor/owner.

C. In isolated non-residential areas, alternative landscaping methods may be accepted, such as the use
of earth toned colored, vinyl-coated steel security fencing in combination with four (4) feet of
evergreen trees, shrubs, vines and/or other plantings.

D. In certain locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, such as remote,
agricultural, or rural locations, or developed heavy industrial areas, the landscaping requirements may
be reduced or waived by the Planning Commission.

E. Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms on the site shall be preserved to the maximum
extent possible. In some cases, such as towers located on large, wooded lots, preservation of
substantial natural growth around the property perimeter may be a sufficient buffer.

F. Cellular facilities utilizing underground vaults in lieu of above ground switching gear buildings shall
be exempted from any buffer requirements.

G. Security Devices. The facility shall be fully secured. A minimum eight feet (8’) high, dark vinyl
coated steel fence shall be installed around the entire perimeter of the compound (measured to the
top of the fence or barbed wired, if applicable). Security fencing shall require screening in accordance
with landscaping requirements, as defined above. Other security measures shall include locks and
alarms. Approved barbed or razor wire and lighting of the compound shall be permitted, if deemed
necessary to fully secure the tower compound.

H. Access. Driveways and parking shall be provided to assure the operator’s access to the facility for
maintenance or emergency services. In some cases, parking/access may be from an adjoining alley,
public street or off-street parking area.

|. Co-Location. No new tower shall be established if space is structurally, technically, and
economically available on an existing tower, which would serve the area that the new tower would
serve. Documentation that reasonable efforts have been made by the applicant to achieve co-location
shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements of this section. Towers shall be designed to
maximize shared use to the greatest extent possible, given the structural and technical limitations of
the type of tower proposed. In any event, co-location shall be encouraged. If feasible, each tower
shall, at a minimum, be designed for double its intended use for all transmitting and receiving
antennae other than microwave dish antennae.

J. Removal of Obsolete Towers. Any tower that is no longer in use for its original communications
purpose shall be removed at the owners’ expense. The owner shall provide the building inspector with
a copy of the notice to the FCC of intent to cease operations, which shall be given 90 days from the
date of ceasing operations, and to remove the obsolete tower and accessory structures. In the case of
multiple operators sharing use of single tower, this provision shall not become effective until all users
cease operations.

9.37.12. Lighting.

A. Towers shall not be artificially lighted unless required by the FAA or other authority for safety
purposes. If lighting is required, “dual lighting” (red at night/strobe during day) shall be preferred
unless restricted by the FAA. Lighting must be shielded or directed inward to the greatest extent
possible so as to minimize the amount of light that falls onto nearby properties, particularly
residences.

B. Basic security lighting for the compound may be permitted but shall not include any flashing lights
or lights greater than 20 feet in height. This lighting shall be focused only on the compound itself and
shall be directed away from any adjacent property.

9.37.13. Environmental Impact. All wireless telecommunications facilities shall comply with the
National Environmental Policy Act. If an environmental assessment is required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC), a copy of the assessment, as well as documentation of the FCC’s
subsequent approval thereof, must be submitted at the time of application.

9.37.14. Safety.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -73-

 




A. Radio Frequency. The applicant shall be required to submit documentation that the proposed
wireless telecommunications facility complies with Federal Communications Commission standards for
radio frequency emissions, as adopted by the FCC on August 1, 1996.

B. Structural. A professional engineer shall certify that all antenna support structures and wireless
telecommunications equipment are erected and/or installed so as to comply with wind loading and
other structural standards contained in the Standard Southern Building Code and the applicable
technical codes established by the Electronic Industries Association (EIA/TIA 222-E “Structural
Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures”) or the Telecommunications
Industry Association. This shall apply to new and modified structures and facilities.

C. Security of Site. Fencing shall be required to ensure that antenna support structures and their
accessory buildings are fully secured. Sufficient anti-climbing measures must be incorporated into each
facility, as needed, to reduce potential for trespass and injury. A sign shall be discretely placed on the
outermost structural element that indicates the name and telephone number of a person responsible
for the safety and maintenance of the facility.

D. Access. Provisions shall be made to provide access clearances for emergency vehicles.
9.37.15. Maintenance.

A. Towers must be properly maintained. Estimated life of structure must be included in submittal
information.

B. Obsolete towers. In the event the use of any wireless telecommunications facility has been
discontinued for the period of 180 consecutive days, the wireless telecommunications facility shall be
deemed to be abandoned. Determination of the date of the abandonment shall be made by the city
engineer who shall have the right to request documentation and/or affidavits from the wireless
telecommunications facility owner regarding the issue of telecommunications facility usage. Upon such
abandonment, the owner/operator of the wireless telecommunications facility shall have an additional
180 days within which to reactivate the use of the wireless telecommunications facility or transfer the
wireless telecommunications facility to another owner/operator who makes actual use of the wireless
telecommunications facility, or dismantle and remove the wireless telecommunications facility. At the
earlier of 180 days from the date of abandonment with reactivation or upon completion of dismantling
and removal, any variance approval for the wireless telecommunications facility shall automatically
expire. The applicant shall sign an affidavit to this effect, to be placed on file with the City of Chelsea.

Section 9.38. Other Supplementary Uses

Supplemental uses not covered elsewhere in this ordinance and which are generally of a nature to be
incompatible with most permitted uses may be allowed in any district except the "R" and “E” districts.
The location shall be approved by the Planning Commission. In addition, a complete development plan
and any other information pertinent to the development or use shall be included at the discretion of
the Planning Commission. Such uses may include but are not limited to the following:

A. Airport or landing field.

B. Commercial, recreational, or amusement development for temporary or seasonable periods.
C. Sanitary landfill operation.

D. Practice golf driving ranges, par three golf courses, or miniature golf courses.

Section 9.39. Building Material Standards Review (Approved CCC 9/15/2017)

A. The standards set out in Article 5 Section 5.74 Material Standards by District may be reviewed and
modified by Chelsea Planning and Zoning Commission on an individual project. New materials are
continually coming to the market place and the ability to adapt is important to developing good design.

B. Requests for modification must be accompanied with accurate plans and material samples.

C. A single project approval does not set a new standard for the building materials percentages set in
Section 5.74.

Section 9.40. Auto, Boat and Motor Home and Travel Trailer Sales (Approved CCC 9/15/2017)

A. Intent. Any large vehicle sales operation shall be established as a permanent development within
the City of Chelsea.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -74-

 




B. Parking. Must meet the requirements for a parking lot as established in Design and Construction
©) Guidelines Article 13

C. Landscaping. Landscaping must meet the requirements for a parking lot as established in Design and
Construction Guidelines Article10 Section 10.3.11.

D. Permeable Surface. Any proposed permeable surface areas must be part of a planned storm water
management plan and plans must be submitted, reviewed and approved by the City Engineer.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -75-




City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Intentional Blank Page

- 76 -




Article 10. Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements

Section 10.1. Applicability
The number of off-street automobile parking spaces shall be provided according to the following
thresholds for the various types of uses described in Table 10-1. Any fractional space calculated
according to Table 10-1 shall be computed as a whole space.
10.1.1. Availability of On-Street Parking. In non-residential areas where on-street parking exists or
required by the Subdivision Regulations, on-street parking spaces directly abutting the use may be
counted toward the parking requirement for the use. On-street handicap parking spaces shall not be
counted. No on-street parking space may be counted toward two or more uses.
10.1.2. Use Not Specified. Where a use is not specifically identified herein, the parking space
requirements of a similar or related use shall apply.
10.1.3. Parking Above or Below Parking Requirements Maximum Desired. Where a developer prefers
to provide “overflow” parking or parking space in excess above of the maximum provided herein the
parking requirements, such as to meet intermittent high demands for parking (i.e. holiday shopping),
such excess space shall be part of a storm water management plan, shall be provided upon a pervious
parking surface and as be approved by the city engineer.

When a developer prefers to provide parking below the parking requirements they shall submit their
proposal to the Planning and Zoning Commission for their review and approval. (Approved CCC 9/15/2017)

10.1.4. Parking Requirements by Use

Table 10-1 Parking Requirements by Use
(sq.ft. = square feet) .
"Type of Us Minim
Single-family, two-family, and 2 per dwelling unit
three-family dwellings

   
       

Upper Story Dwellings

Studios and one-bedroom units 1 per unit 1.5 per unit

Two-bedroom units 1.5 per unit 2 per unit

Three- or more bedroom units 2 per unit 3 per unit

Places of Worship and Assembly 1 per 325 gross sq. ft.or1 1 per 275 gross sq. ft. or 1

Halls per 5 seats in the main per 3.5 seats in the main
assembly area (whichever assembly area (whichever is
is greater) less)

Health Club 1 per 120 gross sq. ft. 1 per 90 gross sq. ft.

Lodging 1 per guestroom plus 1 1 per guestroom plus 1 per
per 500 sq. ft. of common 250 feet of common area
area

Industrial 1 per 500 sq. ft. or 2 1 per 400 sq. ft. or 3 spaces
spaces per 3 employees on per 3 employees on_ the
the maximum working maximum working _ shift.
shift. (whichever is (whichever is less)
greater)

Medical Office 1 per 225 gross sq. ft. 1 per 190 gross sq. ft.

Office 1 per 325 gross sq. ft. 1 per 280 gross sq. ft.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -77 -




“Type of Use

 

Restaurants, Pub Restaurants,
Bars, and Indoor Entertainment

General Retail

Day Care Facilities

Elementary and Middle/Junior High
Schools

High School

Private Club or Lodge

Assisted Living Facilities

Independent Living Facilities

aoe Minimum 5 oe

1 per 125 gross sq. ft.

1 per 250 gross sq. ft.

1.5 spaces per employee
plus adequate area for
loading and _ unloading
children

1 per 4 seats in assembly
room plus 0.75 _ per
daytime employee

1 per 4 seats in assembly
room plus 1 per daytime
employee

1 per 250 gross sq. ft.

1 per 6 residents

1 per 4 residents

 

 

1 per 90 gross sq. ft.

1 per 200 gross sq. ft.

2.25 spaces per employee
plus adequate area _ for
loading and unloading
children

1 per 4 seats in assembly
room plus 1 per daytime
employee

1 per 3.5 seats in assembly
room plus 1 per daytime
employee

1 per 200 gross sq. ft.

1 per 4 residents

1 per 3 residents

& Outdoor Entertainment/Recreation As recommended by the city engineer on a case-by-case
basis
Funeral Home 1 per 60 sq. ft. per 1 per 40 sq. ft. per funeral

funeral service room service room

10 plus 1 space per 450 10 plus 1 space per 375 sq. ft.
sq. ft. over 2,000 sq. ft. over 2,000 sq. ft.

Community Center

Section 10.2. Rules in Applying Parking Standards
In applying the standards of this article, the following rules shall apply:

10.2.1. "Floor area” shall mean the gross floor area of the specified use.
Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall be construed to be the next highest
whole number.
10.2.2. The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned herein shall be the same
as required for a use of similar nature.
10.2.3. In the case of mixed or joint uses, the parking spaces required shall equal the sum of the
requirements of the various uses computed separately.
10.2.4. These standards shall apply fully to all uses and buildings established after the effective date
of this ordinance.
10.2.5. These standards shall apply fully to all additions, expansions, enlargements, or
reconstructions of all buildings.

Section 10.3. Location of Required Parking Spaces

10.3.1. All parking spaces required herein shall be located on the same lot with the building or use
©) served. However, when an increase in the number of spaces is required by a change of use or
enlargement of the building or where such spaces are provided collectively or used jointly by two or

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 78 -




more buildings or establishments, the required spaces may be located and maintained not to exceed
three hundred feet from an institutional building served, and not to exceed five hundred feet from
any other non-residential building served.

10.3.2. Up to 50 percent of the parking spaces required for (a) theaters, public auditoriums, bowling
alleys, dance halls, night clubs, or cafes, and up to 100 percent of the parking spaces required for a
church auditorium may be provided and used jointly by (b) banks, offices, retail stores, repair shops,
service establishments, and similar uses not normally open, used or operated during the same hours as
those listed in (a) provided that written agreement thereto is properly executed and filed as specified
below.

10.3.3. In any case where the required parking spaces are not located on the same lot with the
building or use served or where such spaces are collectively or jointly provided and used, a written
agreement, thereby assuring their retention for such purposes, shall be properly drawn and executed
by the parties concerned. The agreement shall be approved as to form by the city attorney and shall
be filed with the application for a permit. It shall be recorded, at the applicant's expense, in the
Office of Judge of Probate, Shelby County, Alabama and shall be in full force and effect until released
by resolution of the Planning Commission.

10.3.4. No off-street parking shall be permitted in the required front yard of any “E” or "R" district
except upon a driveway providing access to a garage, carport, or parking area for a dwelling.

10.3.5. All parking spaces required herein, including adequate driveways and maneuvering areas shall
be improved with a suitable hard surface permanent type of pavement.

Section 10.4. Loading Requirements--Specified Uses
The following are the off-street loading regulations of the City of Chelsea.

10.4.1. A building whose dominant use is handling and selling goods at retail shall provide spaces in
relation to the total floor area used for retail purposes as follows:
Area | Spaces Required

5,000 - 10,000 sq. ft. One
10,000 - 20,000 sq. ft. Two
20,000 - 30,000 sq. ft. Three
Over - 30,000 sq. ft. Four

10.4.2. Manufacturing, repair, wholesale or warehouse uses shall provide spaces in relation to total

floor area as follows:
Areas: @ :

Spaces Required

5,000 - 40,000 sq. ft. One
40,000 - 100,000 sq. ft. Two
Each - 75,000 sq. ft. over 100,000 sq. ft. One Additional

10.4.3. Other buildings not listed above shall provide spaces in relation to total floor area as follows:

Area Spaces Required
5,000 - 50,000 sq. ft. One

50,000 - 100,000 sq. ft. Two

100,000 - 200,000 sq. ft. Three

Over - 200,000 sq. ft. Four

10.4.4. Rules in applying loading standards.

In applying the requirements of Section 10.4 of this article, the following rules shall apply.

These requirements shall apply fully to all buildings erected after the effective date of this ordinance.
These requirements shall apply fully to all enlargements, expansions, or reconstructions of all
buildings.

In all cases, off street loading and unloading facilities shall be of sufficient sizes so that no part of any
motor vehicle, loading or unloading, shall protrude onto a public street.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code -79-




City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Intentional Blank Page

- 80 -




Article 11. Sign Regulations

Section 11.1. Intent

The purpose of this article is to provide the minimum control of signs that ensures the protection of the
public safety and general welfare. These provisions are intended to reduce the hazards to pedestrian
and vehicular traffic, prevent unsightly and detrimental development which has a blighting influence
upon the community, prevent signs from reaching such excessive size or numbers that they obscure one
another to the detriment of all concerned, preserve the general character and aesthetic quality of the
city, and promote a positive city image which reflects order, harmony, and pride.

Section 11.2. Measurement Determinations

11.2.1. Number of Signs. In general, the number of signs shall be the number of non-contiguous sign
faces. Multiple non-contiguous sign faces may be counted as a single sign if all the sign faces are
included in the geometric figure used for determining the sign area.

A. Sign Face Area.

Individual Signs. The sign face area of individual signs shall be computed by using the smallest square,

circle, rectangle, triangle or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the
writing representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material or color forming an
integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or
structure against which it is placed. This does not include the supporting framework, bracing, or
decorative fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets applicable regulations and is clearly
incidental to the display itself.

Multifaced Signs. The sign face area of a sign with more than one face shall be computed by adding
together the area of all sign faces visible from any one point. When two sign faces are placed back to
back so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time and when the sign faces are
part of the same sign structure and are no more than 36 inches apart, the sign face area shall be
computed by the measurement of one of the faces.

Sign Height. The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the base of the sign at normal
grade to the top of the highest attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be
the lower of existing grade prior to construction or the newly established grade after construction,
exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of locating the sign.
In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on
the assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation
of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or the grade of the land at the principal entrance
to the principal structure on the parcel, whichever is lower.

Distance between Signs. The minimum required distance between signs shall be measured along street
rights-of-way from the closest parts of any two signs.

Facade Area. The facade area shall be measured by determining the area within a two-dimensional
geometric figure coinciding with the edges of the walls, windows, doors, parapets, marquees, and roof
slopes of greater than forty-five (45) degrees that form a side of a building or unit.

Section 11.3. Exempt Signs

The following signs are exempt from the requirement that a permit be obtained and shall not be
counted toward any restriction regarding the number or area of signs permitted on a parcel provided
they conform to the standards enumerated in this section and provided they are not placed or
constructed so as to create a hazard of any kind.

11.3.1. Signs that are not designed or located to be legible from any street or adjoining property.

11.3.2. Signs of 216 square inches (1.5 sq. ft.) in size or less and signs that include no letters,
symbols, logos, or designs in excess of two (2) inches in vertical or horizontal dimension, provided that
such sign, or combination of such signs, does not constitute a sign prohibited by these regulations.
Combination of such signs shall not exceed 10 sq. ft. at any one location or any one parcel.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 81-




11.3.3. Signs necessary to promote health, safety, and welfare, and other regulatory, statutory,
traffic control, or directional signs erected on public property with permission as appropriate from the
City of Chelsea, the State of Alabama, or the United States.

11.3.4. Legal notices and official instruments.

11.3.5. Decorative flags and bunting for a celebration, convention, or commemoration of significance
to the entire community when authorized by the City of Chelsea for a prescribed period of time.
11.3.6. Holiday lights and decorations.

11.3.7. Merchandise displayed behind storefront windows so long as no part of the display moves or
contains flashing lights.

11.3.8. Memorial signs or tablets, historical markers, name of a building and dates of erection when
cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other incombustible materials and
attached to the surface of a building.

11.3.9. Signs incorporated into machinery or equipment by a manufacturer or distributor, which
identify or advertise only the product or service dispensed by the machine or equipment, such as signs
customarily affixed to vending machines, newspaper racks, telephone booths and gasoline pumps.
11.3.10. Advertising and identifying signs located on taxicabs, buses, trailers, trucks, or vehicle
bumpers.

11.3.11. Public warning signs to indicate the dangers of trespassing, swimming, animals, or similar
hazards.

11.3.12. Works of art that do not constitute advertising.

11.3.13. Signs carried by a person.

Section 11.4. Prohibited Signs

It shall be unlawful to erect, cause to be erected, maintain or cause to be maintained, any sign not
expressly authorized by, or exempted from, these regulations. The following signs are expressly
prohibited unless otherwise exempted or expressly authorized by this article.

11.4.1. Any sign with a sign face area greater than 200 sq. ft.

11.4.2. Signs that are in violation of the building code or electrical code adopted by the City of
Chelsea.

11.4.3. Any sign that, in the opinion of the city engineer, does or will constitute a safety hazard.
11.4.4. Portable signs

11.4.5. Signs with visible moving, revolving, or rotating parts or visible mechanical movement of any
description or other apparent visible movement achieved by electrical, electronic, or mechanical
means, except for traditional barber poles.

11.4.6. Signs with lights or illuminations that flash, move, rotate, scintillate, blink, flicker or vary in
intensity or color except for "time and temperature” signs.

11.4.7. Strings of light bulbs used on commercially developed parcels for commercial purposes, other
than traditional holiday decorations.

11.4.8. Wind signs consisting of one or more banners, flags, pennants, ribbons, spinners, streamers or
captive balloons, or other objects or material fastened in such a manner as to move freely upon being
subjected to pressure by wind.

11.4.9. Signs that incorporate projected images, emit any sound that is intended to attract
attention, or involve the use of live animals.

11.4.10. Signs that emit audible sound, odor, or visible matter such as smoke or steam.

11.4.11. Signs or sign structures that interfere in any way with free use of any fire escape,
emergency exit, or standpipe or that obstruct any window to such an extent that light or ventilation is

reduced to a point below that required by any provision of these regulations or any other regulation of
the City of Chelsea

11.4.12. Signs that resemble any official sign or marker erected by any governmental agency, or that
by reason of position, shape or color, would conflict with the proper functioning of any traffic sign or

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 82 -




signal, or be of a size, location, movement, content, color, or illumination that may be reasonably
t confused with or construed as, or conceal, a traffic-control device.
Signs that obstruct the vision of pedestrians, cyclists, or motorist traveling on or entering public

streets.

11.4.13. Non-governmental signs that use the words "stop," "look," "danger," or any similar word,

phrase, or symbol.

11.4.14. Signs, within 10 feet of public right of way or 100 feet of traffic-control lights, that contain

red or green lights that might be confused with traffic control lights.

11.4.15. Any sign within any public right-of-way.

11.4.16. Signs that are of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or impair the vision of any

motorist, cyclist, or pedestrian using or entering a public way, or that are a hazard or a nuisance to

occupants of any property because of glare or other characteristics.

11.4.17. Signs that contain any lighting or control mechanism that causes unreasonable interference

with radio, television, or other communication signals.

11.4.18. Signs that are painted, pasted, or printed on any curbstone, flagstone, pavement, or any

portion of any sidewalk or street, except house numbers and traffic control signs.

11.4.19. Signs placed upon benches, bus shelters, or waste receptacles, except as may be authorized

in writing.

11.4.20. Signs erected on public property or on private property located on public property (such as

private utility poles) other than signs erected by a public authority for public purposes or as otherwise

permitted by these regulations.

11.4.21. Signs erected over or across any public street except as may otherwise be expressly

authorized by these regulations and except governmental signs erected by or on the order of a public

officer.

11.4.22. Roof signs placed above the roof line of a building or on (or against) a roof slope of less than
© 45 degrees.

11.4.23. Vehicle signs with a total sign area in excess of 10 sq. ft. when the vehicle is parked for

more than 60 consecutive minutes within 100 feet of any street right-of-way; is visible from the street

right-of-way that the vehicle is within 100 feet of; and is not regularly used in the conduct of the

business advertised on the vehicle. A vehicle used primarily for advertising shall not be considered a

vehicle used in the conduct of the business.

Section 11.5. Permitted Signs

11.5.1. Generally
The signs enumerated in this section shall be subject to all the terms of this article including the
requirement that a sign permit be obtained prior to erection of any sign in excess of one (1) sign ona
parcel or a total sign face area of six (6) sq. ft. on a parcel. Exemption from the requirement to obtain
a sign permit does not necessarily indicate exemption from any other requirement or permit that may
be required by the city. Wherever there is inconsistency between these sign regulations and subdivision
protective covenants, the more stringent requirement shall apply.

11.5.2. All Parcels.

A. Directional Signs. Directional signs limited in area to four (4) sq. ft., giving directions to motorists
regarding the location of parking areas and access drives shall be permitted on all parcels and shall not
be counted as part of an occupant's allowable sign area.

B. Flags. Not more than three (3) flags or insignias of governmental, religious, charitable, fraternal, or
other organizations may be displayed on any one parcel of land. Such flags shall not exceed 60 sq. ft. in
area and shall not be flown from a pole the top of which is more than 40 feet in height. All flags must
be flown in accordance with protocol established by the Congress of the United States for the American
Flag. Any flag not meeting the above requirements shall be considered a banner and shall be subject to
the appropriate regulations.

© C. Banners

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 83 -




Banners must be receive a permit from the city and are subject to the following restrictions:

Banner signs shall not be located on the public right-of-way of any public street.

Banner signs may be posted up to 21 days.

Banner signs shall be promptly removed within two days after the conclusion of the event.

Banners must be maintained and not allowed to slump or become in a poor state of repair.

No more than four banners per calendar year shall be allowed for any one organization

Banner signs shall not exceed 40 square feet.

In multi-tenant properties or shopping centers, each tenant may have no more than one banner per

street frontage provided that a banner sign shall not be located closer than 100 feet from another
such banner sign on the same premises or site.

Banner signs shall not be used as a permanent sign.

Failure to maintain permitted banners or any non-compliance with these regulations may result in the
denial of future permits.

Nothing in this provision shall be construed to authorize the posting of such banners upon trees, utility
poles, traffic control signs, lights or devices in any place or manner prohibited by this article. Any
posting on private property without the consent of the owner is prohibited.

D. Utility Signs. Public utility signs that identify the location of underground utility lines and facilities,
high voltage lines and facilities, and other utility facilities and appurtenances are permitted so long as
they do not exceed three (3) feet in height and so long as the sign face does not exceed one-half (1/2)
square foot.

E. Undeveloped Parcels. Undeveloped parcels may display one (1) square foot of signage per 10 feet of
frontage up to a maximum of 96 sq. ft.. No individual sign shall exceed 64 sq. ft. or 10 feet in height.
Signs must be spaced at least 100 feet apart.

11.5.3. Residential Developments, Farms, and Ranches.

A. A sign may be displayed at the entrance to a residential development, farm, or ranch subject to the

following restrictions. One (1) sign is permitted at only one entrance from each abutting street. The
sign may be a single sign with two (2) faces of equal size or may be two (2) single-faced structures of
equal size located on each side of the entrance. No face of the sign shall exceed 32 sq. ft. in size and
may be illuminated by a steady light only.

B. All such signs shall be maintained perpetually by the developer, the owner of the sign, a pertinent

homeowners’ association, or some other person who is legally accountable. Such accountability is
required before a permit shall be issued. If, following the issuance of a permit and subsequent erection
of such signs, no accountable person accepts legal responsibility to maintain the signs and no other
provision has been made for maintenance, the signs shall be removed by the developer or owner.

11.5.4. Commercially Developed Parcels.

A. Freestanding Signs. Signs may be placed in a freestanding location on a commercially developed
parcel subject to the following limitations:

The permissible number, area, spacing, and height of freestanding signs for each multiple-occupancy
complex and each commercial occupant not located in a multiple-occupancy complex shall be
determined according to Table 11.1.

Multiple Frontages. For a parcel having frontage on two (2) or more public streets, each frontage shall
be considered separately for the purposes of determining compliance with the above provisions for
freestanding signs; but the permitted sign area for one (1) frontage may not be combined with that
permitted on another frontage to increase the permitted sign area on one (1) frontage. However, no
freestanding sign on one (1) right-of-way may be closer than 100 feet to a sign on another right-of-
way.

B. Building Signs. Signs not expressly prohibited by this article may be attached to the wall of a
building on a commercially-developed parcel subject to the following limitations:

Building signs shall be limited to a maximum height of 30 feet above grade, except that on a building of
more than 30 feet in height, a single sign is allowed above 30 feet on each side of the building.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 84-




Each multiple occupancy complex may display one (1) building sign on each side of the principal
building or buildings in the complex. The sign-face area shall not exceed 200 sq. ft. per sign or a total
combined sign-face area of five (5) percent of the facade area of the building side, whichever is
smaller.

Each occupant of a multiple-occupancy complex may display three (3) building signs; one on any
exterior portion of the complex that is part of the occupant's unit, not including common or jointly
owned portions. The sign-face area shall not exceed 200 sq. ft. per sign or a total combined sign-face
area of 10 percent of the facade area of such exterior portion, whichever is smaller.

Each occupant not located in a multiple-occupancy complex may display three (3) building signs on
each side of the building in which the occupant is located. The sign-face area shall not exceed 200 sq.
ft. per sign or a total combined sign-face area of 10 percent of the facade area of the building side,
whichever is smaller.

Table 11-1 Freestanding/Monument Sign Standards

 

If the frontage on a public right-of-way is:

>50' — >100'— | >200'— >300' —
<=50' <=100' <=200' <=300' <=400' >400'

 

 

 

 

 

Maximum number of signs | 1 1 1 1 2 3

16 sq. | 32 sq. | 48 sq. | 64 sq. | 80 — sq.
Maximum total sign area ft. ft. ft. ft. ft. 96 sq. ft.
Maximum sign area for | 16sq. | 32 sq. | 48 sq. | 64 sq. | 80 _— sq.
individual sign ft. ft. ft. ft. ft. 96 sq. ft.
Minimum setback from
side property line 10 ft. | 15 ft. 20 ft. 50 ft. 50 ft. 50 ft.

 

Minimum distance from
any other freestanding
| sign on the same site n/a n/a n/a n/a 100 ft. 100 ft.

 

Maximum height 10 ft. | 15 ft. 20 ft. 20 ft. 20 ft. 20 ft.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C. Time and Temperature Signs. Time and temperature signs are permitted on commercially
developed parcels notwithstanding a general prohibition on changing or animated signs. These signs
may only display numerical information and must be kept accurate. They may be freestanding or
attached to a building and are subject to the regulations applicable to such signs. They shall be
counted as part of the occupant's allowable sign area.

Section 11.6. Design, Construction, Location, and Maintenance Standards

11.6.1. Compliance with Building and Electrical Codes Required.
All permanent signs, and the illumination thereof, shall be designed, constructed, and maintained in
conformity with applicable provisions of the building and electrical codes adopted by the City of
Chelsea. Wherever there is inconsistency between these sign regulations and the building or electrical
code, the more stringent requirement shall apply.

A. Illumination Standards.

Sign lighting may not be designed or located to cause confusion with traffic lights.

Illumination by floodlights or spotlights is permissible so long as none of the light emitted shines
directly onto an adjoining property or into the eyes of motorists or pedestrians using or entering public
streets.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 85 -




Illuminated signs shall not have lighting mechanisms that project more than 18 inches perpendicularly
from any surface of the sign over public space.

B. Placement and Clearance Standards.

Signs shall be located so that there is, at every intersection or driveway, a clear view between the
heights of three (3) and 10 feet in a triangle formed by the corner and points on the curb 70 feet from
the intersection or entranceway.

Supports for signs or sign structures shall not be placed in or upon a public right-of-way or public
easement, except under the terms of a lease between the owner of the easement or right-of-way and
the owner of the sign.

No freestanding sign shall project over a public right-of-way.

No sign or sign structure shall be erected that impedes use of any fire escape, emergency exit, or
standpipe.

All signs over pedestrian ways shall provide a minimum of seven (7) feet six (6) inches of clearance.

All signs over vehicular ways shall provide a minimum of fourteen (14) feet six (6) inches of clearance.
C. Relationship to Building Features.

A building sign shall not extend beyond any edge of the surface to which it is attached or disrupt a
major architectural feature of the building.

A building sign may project no more than four (4) feet perpendicularly from the surface to which it is
attached.

The combined area of permanent and temporary signs placed on or behind windows shall not exceed
25 percent of the total window area at the same floor level on the side of the building or unit upon
which the signs are displayed.

D. Maintenance.

All signs, including their supports, braces, guys and anchors, electrical parts and lighting fixtures, and
all painted and display areas shall be maintained in accordance with the building and electrical codes
adopted by the City of Chelsea and shall present a neat and clean appearance. The vegetation around,
in front of, behind, and underneath the base of freestanding signs for a distance of 10 feet shall be
neatly trimmed and free of unsightly weeds, and no rubbish or debris that would constitute a fire or
health hazard shall be permitted under or near the sign.

Section 11.7. Administration

11.7.1. Permits

A. Applicability
No person shall erect a sign without first obtaining a sign permit, except for the following actions that
shall not require a permit:

Changing the copy, announcement, or message on a sign.

Cleaning, painting, electrical or comparable maintenance or repair of a sign that does not alter any
regulated feature of such sign.

Erecting a sign for which a permit is not required in accordance with "Section 11.3 Exempt Signs" or
"Section 11.5.1 Permitted Signs - Generally".

B. Procedure
All sign permits shall be procured in accordance with the following procedure:

A written application shall be submitted to the city clerk for review and processing. The application
will be accepted by the city clerk only upon determination that all requisite documentation and fees
accompany the application form. The application shall include such supplementary information as may
be specifically requested by the city clerk or city engineer to determine compliance with these
regulations.

The city engineer, or other professional designated by the city, shall review the application and plans
and specifications to determine whether the proposed sign conforms to all applicable requirements of
these regulations.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 86 -




Following review and determination as to conformance with these regulations, the city engineer or
other professional designated by the city shall, in a reasonably expeditious manner, either approve or
deny the application for the sign permit. In case of denial, the city engineer or other professional
designated by the city shall specify the section or sections of these regulations with which the
proposed sign is not in conformance.

If an approved sign requires a permit from the city engineer or other professional designated by the
city, the applicant shall forward a copy of the completed application form and associated plans and
the specifications to the building official who shall determine whether the proposed sign conforms to
all applicable requirements of the building regulations and who shall, in a reasonably expeditious
manner, either approve or deny an application for a permit to construct the sign.

C. Submission Requirements.

No request for a sign permit shall be considered complete until all of the following has been submitted
to the city clerk:

Application Form. The application shall be submitted to the city in duplicate on forms made available
by the city.

Statement of Authorization. Any application form, which is signed by an individual other than the
property owner, shall be accompanied by a notarized statement of authorization consenting to the
sign placement or, if the property or building upon which the sign is to be located is leased, evidence
of the executed lease shall accompany the application form. In the event the building or property is
leased and the application form is signed by an individual other than the lessor, the application shall
be accompanied by a notarized statement of authorization signed by the lessor consenting to the sign
placement and evidence of the executed lease.

Plans and Specifications. Plans and specifications for any proposed sign shall be submitted in
duplicate, drawn to scale, and include the following:

Lot frontage on all street rights-of-way.

Facade area of any wall on which a sign is proposed to be placed.

Dimensions and elevations (including the message) of the sign.

Dimensions of the sign’s supporting members.

Maximum and minimum height of sign, as measured from finished grade.

Location of the sign in relation to property lines, public rights-of-way, easements, buildings, and other
signs on the property.

For illuminated signs, the type, placement, intensity, and hours of illumination.

Construction and electrical specifications, for the purpose of enabling determination that the sign
meets all applicable structural and electrical requirements of the building code.

Value of the proposed sign.

Number, type, location, and surface area of all existing signs on the same property and/or building on
which the sign is to be located.

Application Fee. The applicant shall be required to pay an application fee according to the current

schedule of fees established by the City of Chelsea for the particular category of application. This fee
shall be non-refundable, irrespective of the final disposition of the application.

Permit Expiration. Sign permit shall be valid for a maximum of 180 days after issuance. Failure to
place the sign within the allotted time period shall void the permit and necessitate reapplication.
Variances. Any request for variance from the standards set forth in this article shall be processed
according to the procedures and criteria for variances as set forth in "Article 14, Board of Zoning
Adjustment" of these regulations.

Inspections. The city clerk, city engineer, building inspector, or other professional designated by the
city shall, as each may determine necessary, inspect the property to ascertain that the sign is in
accord with all provisions of these regulations and the building regulations, respectively, and in accord
with all terms upon which the sign permit may have been conditioned.

Section 11.8. Nonconforming Signs

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 87 -




A nonconforming sign is any sign within the jurisdiction of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Chelsea
on the effective date of this article or any sign existing within any area added to such jurisdiction after
the effective date of this article that is prohibited by, or does not conform to the requirements of,
these regulations.

11.8.1. All nonconforming signs shall be removed or altered to be conforming within five (5) years of

the effective date of these regulations, unless an earlier removal is required by paragraph 11.9.2

below or by Section 11.11.

11.8.2. Subject to the limitations imposed by paragraph 11.9.1 above and Section 11.11 below, a

nonconforming sign may be continued and shall be maintained in good condition as required by these

regulations, but it shall not be:

A. Structurally changed to another nonconforming sign, but its pictorial content may be changed.

B. Structurally altered to prolong the life of the sign, except to meet safety requirements.

C. Expanded or altered in any manner that increases the degree of nonconformity.

D. Reestablished after damage or destruction if the estimated cost of reconstruction exceeds fifty (50)
percent of the appraised replacement cost as determined by the city engineer or other professional
designated by the city.

E. Continued in use when a conforming sign or sign structure shall be erected on the same parcel or
unit.

F. Continued in use when the structure housing the occupancy is demolished or requires renovations
the cost of which exceeds 50 percent of the assessed value of the structure.

11.8.3. Any nonconforming sign, which is located on land adjoining an interstate or federal-aid

primary highway for which just compensation is required for removal by the Federal Highway

Beautification Act or the Highway Beautification Act-Outdoor Advertising of the State of Alabama,

shall be exempted from the removal terms of paragraph (11.9.1) above. This shall not, however,

preclude the city from seeking to remove any such sign through an eminent domain proceeding or
achieving sign conformance by other lawful means.

Section 11.9. Abandoned Signs

11.9.1. Except as otherwise provided in this article, any sign that is located on property which
becomes vacant and unoccupied; pertains to a business which does not maintain a current business
license; or pertains to a time, event, or purpose which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have
been abandoned. Any abandoned sign shall be prohibited and shall be removed by the owner of the
sign or the owner of the property. The frame of an abandoned sign shall not be required to be
removed if it conforms to all applicable terms contained in these regulations (including the sign face
area for sign replacement yielded by such frame).

11.9.2. Any sign structure which supported an abandoned sign and which structure conforms to all
applicable terms contained in these regulations shall be allowed to remain in place. However, in the
event a sign structure which supported or supports an abandoned sign is inconsistent with any term
contained in these regulations (including the sign face area for sign replacement yielded by the
frame), then the sign structure and frame shall be either altered to comply with the terms contained
herein or removed by the owner of such structure or property.

Section 11.10. Illegal Signs

11.10.1. The following signs shall be considered to be illegal and a violation of the terms of this
article:

A. A sign erected or maintained after the effective date of this article inconsistent with the terms
contained herein

B. A nonconforming sign which was erected inconsistent with the terms governing location, height,
surface area or other regulatory measure applicable at the time of its erection

C. An abandoned sign

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 88 -




11.10.2. Upon determination by the city engineer or other professional designated by the city that a
certain sign is illegal, the city engineer or other professional designated by the city shall act to
remedy the violation, which may include:

A. The issuance of a notice of violation to the individual who owns, is responsible for, or benefits from
the display of such sign prescribing the action necessary to make the sign legal and conforming to the
terms contained herein or ordering the removal of the illegal sign and also prescribing the time which
the individual is afforded to accomplish such action.

B. The removal by the city of any illegal sign located on public property or on private property located
on public property, including any such sign located within a street right-of-way; in which case, the city
shall have the right to recover the full costs of removal and disposal from the individual erecting such a
sign.

11.10.3. Failure to bring any illegal sign into conformance with the terms contained in this article or

any other violation of the terms contained in this article shall be considered a violation of the Zoning

Ordinance of the City of Chelsea and shall be subject to the remedies and penalties provided by such

ordinance and by state law.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 89 -




Article 12. Nonconforming Uses

Section 12.1. Non-conforming uses in General

Any condition with, or on property, which is “non-conforming” under the original, or prior revisions, of
either the Shelby County Planning and Zoning Regulations or the City of Chelsea Planning and Zoning
Regulations shall remain “non-conforming” under any subsequent revision of the City of Chelsea
Planning and Zoning Regulations unless expressly allowed in any revised City of Chelsea Planning and
Zoning Regulation.

Section 12.2. When Continuance of Use Permitted; Change in Use

The lawful use of a structure or the lawful use of land existing at the time of the effective date of this
ordinance may be continued although such use does not conform to the provisions hereof. If no
structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a structure may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same general classification or to a conforming use.

Section 12.3. Structures or Premises Vacant For One Year

In the event that a structure or premises occupied by a nonconforming use becomes and remains
vacant for a continuous period of one year or more, the use of the same shall thereafter conform to
the use regulations of the district in which such structure or premises is located.

Section 12.4. Enlargement, etc., of structure or premises

No structure or premises occupied by a nonconforming use shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed,
or structurally altered, unless such use is changed to a use which conforms to the use regulations of the
district in which such structure or premises is located; provided, however, that a structure or premises
may be physically enlarged, extended, reconstructed, or structurally altered to the extent necessary
for compliance with any existing and applicable law or ordinance specifying minimum standards of
health or safety.

Section 12.5. Enlargements, etc., of Nonconforming Use
No nonconforming use shall be enlarged, extended, or expanded unless such use is changed to a use
that conforms to the use regulations of the district in which such use is located.

Section 12.6. Structures Conforming To District Regulations but Not Other Regulations

A structure or building conforming to the use regulations of the district in which it is located but not
conforming to any other provisions of this ordinance, may be enlarged, extended, or expanded;
provided; that such enlargement, extension, or expansion conforms to the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 12.7. Restoration of Damaged Buildings

Any nonconforming building or structure damaged or destroyed by any cause may be rebuilt or
reconstructed to its original state of nonconformity provided that such reconstruction shall commence
within one (1) year after the damage occurs.

Section 12.8. Reestablishment of Nonconforming Use

Any nonconforming use discontinued because of damage or destruction of a building or premises may
be reestablished at its original level of nonconformity if the use is resumed within one (1) year of its
discontinuance.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 90 -




City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Intentional Blank Page

-91-




Article 13. Administration

Section 13.1. Enforcement
The duty of administering and enforcing the provisions of this ordinance is hereby conferred upon the
city planner or other such official designated by the Planning Commission.

Section 13.2. Zoning Certificates

A zoning certificate shall be required for the construction of any building or for the alteration of any
building where such alteration will cause an increase in the land coverage of such building. A
certificate shall not be required for accessory buildings or barns in the AR zoning district.

Any applicant for a zoning certificate shall submit to the Planning Commission a sketch showing the
location of the proposed construction or alteration, the property lot lines, and all applicable
dimensions so that the city planner may determine that the construction or alteration conforms to the
dimensional and use regulations of the district in which it is located.

Section 13.3. Procedures for Requesting a Supplemental Use

13.3.1. Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to establish a process that enables and facilitates
review of those uses identified as supplemental uses in these regulations in order to determine the
appropriateness of a particular supplemental use in a given location.

13.3.2. Authorization. The Planning Commission may, under the prescribed standards and procedures
contained herein, authorize the construction or initiation of any supplemental use that is expressly
permitted as a supplemental use in a particular zoning district.

13.3.3. Procedures.

A. The city clerk shall, upon determination that the application complies with all applicable
submission requirements, receive the application and schedule it for public hearing by the Planning
Commission.

B. The city clerk shall, a minimum of 15 calendar days before the scheduled public hearing by the
Planning Commission, provide notice of such hearing by regular mail to the owners of property
adjacent to the proposed supplemental use as their names appear in the county tax records.

C. The Planning Commission shall consider the application and render a decision at the conclusion of
the public hearing unless it is determined that action must be deferred to allow for additional input
and review.

13.3.4. Submission Requirements.
No request for supplemental use approval shall be considered complete until all of the following has
been submitted to the city clerk:

A. Application Form.

The application shall be submitted to the city clerk on forms to be provided by the city. The
application shall be signed. If not signed by the property owner, it shall be accompanied by a notarized
affidavit that the applicant is authorized to act in the owner's behalf. The application and any
accompanying documentation shall be submitted in three (3) copies.

B. Plans and Specifications
Each application shall be accompanied by an accurate site plan, drawn to scale, which identifies the
following:

The current off-street parking available on the site.

Any new proposed parking layout.

Ingress to and egress from the site.

Area of the site.

Existing uses on the site, including the location and floor area of all buildings.
Such other information as the Planning Commission may reasonably require.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 92. -




Any supplementary information, exhibits, plans, or maps, which will become part of the application,
shall be submitted to the city clerk at the time of filing the application.

C. Application Fee

The applicant shall be required to pay an application fee according to the current schedule of fees
established by the city for the category of application. This fee shall be non-refundable irrespective of
the final disposition of the application.

13.3.5. Standards for Approval
A supplemental use may be approved by the Planning Commission only upon determination that the
application and evidence presented clearly indicate that all of the following standards have been met:

A. The proposed use shall be in harmony with the general purpose, goals, objectives, and standards of
the City of Chelsea Comprehensive Plan; these regulations; or any other official plan, program, map, or
regulation of the City of Chelsea.

B. The proposed use shall be consistent with the community welfare and not detract from the public's
convenience at the specific location.

C. The proposed use shall not unduly decrease the value of neighboring property.
The use shall be compatible with the surrounding area and not impose an excessive burden or have a
substantial negative impact on surrounding or adjacent uses or on community facilities or services.

13.3.6. Conditions and Restrictions on Approval

In approving a supplemental use, the Planning Commission may impose conditions and restrictions upon
the property benefited by the conditional use as may be necessary to comply with the standards set
out above, to reduce or minimize any potentially injurious effect of such supplemental use upon other
property in the neighborhood, and to carry out the general purpose and intent of these regulations. In
approving any supplemental use, the Planning Commission may specify the period of time for which
such approval is valid for the commencement of the proposed conditional use. The Planning
Commission may, upon written request, grant extensions to such time allotments not exceeding six (6)
months each without notice or hearing. Failure to comply with any such condition or restriction
imposed by the Planning Commission shall constitute a violation of these regulations. Those conditional
uses, which the Planning Commission approves subject to conditions, shall have the time allotted to
satisfy such conditions specified by the Planning Commission.

Section 13.4. Violation and Penalty

In addition to all other means provided by law for the enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance,
any person violating any of the provisions thereof shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than
$100.00 and cost of court for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.

Section 13.5. Temporary Emergency Relief
The Mayor is hereby granted authority to provide immediate temporary emergency relief, to applicants
requesting such, by permitting the installation of a mobile home on an applicant's property under the
following conditions:
13.5.1. Such permit shall be valid only for a period not to exceed one (1) year from the date of
issuance.
13.5.2. Such permit shall not be transferable; and, prior to issuance of such permit, the Mayor must
be reasonably satisfied that the applicant's requested relief is necessary, and that the need for such
relief is directly related to damage resulting from fire or declared natural disaster.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 93 -




Article 14. Board of Zoning Adjustment

Section 14.1. Appointment

A Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby established. Such Board shall be appointed as provided by
Section 11-52-80, Code of Alabama, 1975, or as such may be amended, and it shall have all powers
granted therein.

Section 14.2. Procedure

The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs and in keeping
with the provisions of this ordinance. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman or, in his
absence, the acting chairman. He may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings shall be open to the public. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall keep minutes of its
proceedings and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
public record and be immediately filed in the official records of the board.

Section 14.3. Administrative Review

The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that an error exists in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Planning Commission in the
enforcement of this ordinance.

Section 14.4. Variances

To authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, such variance from the terms of this ordinance as will not
be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship.

Section 14.5. Justification
Variances to the terms of this ordinance may be granted on an individual, case-by-case basis upon a
finding by the Board of Zoning Adjustment that the variance will not be contrary to the public interest
and, where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance would
result in unnecessary hardship. Another essential factor is that the spirit of the ordinance shall be
observed and substantial justice done. More specifically, the board shall determine all of the following
criteria have been considered.
14.5.1. The board should make proper adjustment to prevent unnecessary hardship, even to the
extent of authorizing non-conforming uses. Where the board authorizes a non-conforming use in a
district to prevent unnecessary hardship, all relevant factors, when taken together, must indicate that
the plight of the premises in question is unique in that they cannot reasonably be put to a conforming
use because of the limitations imposed upon them by reason of their classification in a specific zone.

14.5.2. Variances should be permitted only under peculiar and exceptional circumstances.

14.5.3. Variances should be permitted only if the ordinance has created an unnecessary hardship.
Alabama statutes require unnecessary hardship for approval of variances.

14.5.4. Mere financial loss of a kind, which might be common to all of the property owners in a
district, is not an unnecessary hardship.

14.5.5. When a hardship is self-inflicted or self-created, there is no basis for a claim that a variance
should be granted.

14.5.6. Variances should be granted sparingly and should be carefully preserved to the end that the
structure of this ordinance would not disintegrate and fall apart by constant erosion at the hands of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment.

Section 14.6. Application for a Variance

An application for a variance shall be filed with the Chairman of the Board of Zoning Adjustment. The
application shall be filed by the property owner or the authorized agent of the property owner on a
form made available by the city clerk and shall include the following:

14.6.1. Name, Signature and address of the property owner and agent of the property owner, if any.
14.6.2. Address of the property under consideration.
14.6.3. Zoning and land use of the property under consideration.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 94 -




14.6.4. Justification for the variance in accordance with all of the criteria in Section 14.5.
14.6.5. A vicinity map showing the location of the subject property.

14.6.6. A plat, drawn to scale, showing all dimensions, property boundaries, and proposed
development layout with the variance noted or highlighted.

14.6.7. The names and addresses of adjacent property owners as shown on the most recent records
of the Shelby County Tax Assessor’s Office.

14.6.8. A $50.00 administrative fee is required from the applicant or agent at the time the
application for a variance is made, plus the cost incurred in notification and publication.

Section 14.7. Public Notice Required

At least 15 days prior to the scheduled Board of Zoning Adjustment public hearing, the Chairman of the
Board of Zoning Adjustment shall give written notice of the variance request to all adjacent property
owners. Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States Mail, first class,
postage prepaid, addressed to such property owners at the addresses as submitted with the variance
application by the applicant, as well as publication in a newspaper of general publication throughout
the city and/or posting of such notices in four (4) conspicuous places within the city (if there is no
newspaper of general circulation). Any error in the address of such notices shall not invalidate the
giving of notice, provided that no more than five percent (5%) of the total number of notices given
contain any such error. Such notice shall state the following:

14.7.1. The name of the applicant.
14.7.2. The location of the property.
14.7.3. The nature of the variance and applicable zoning provisions.

14.7.4. The time, date, and location of the Board of Zoning Adjustment public hearing at which said
application is to be heard and considered.

Section 14.8. Action on Appeals

In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may, so long as such action
is in conformity with the terms of this ordinance, reverse or affirm (wholly or in part) or modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination as to what should be made and, to that end, shall have
powers of the Planning Commission from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four (4)
members of the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination
of the Planning Commission or other administrative official; to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this ordinance; or to affect any variation in the
application of this ordinance.

Section 14.9. Appeals - How Taken

14.9.1. Appeals to the Board of Zoning Adjustment may be filed by any person aggrieved by any
officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected by any decision of the administrative
official. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days or such lesser
period as may be provided by the rules of the board, by filing with the city clerk or other
administrative official and the Board of Zoning Adjustment, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The code enforcement officer shall forthwith transmit to the board all papers constituting
the record upon which the action was appealed.

14.9.2. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a
reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent, or attorney.

Section 14.10. Stay of Proceedings

An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed, unless the city clerk or other
administrative official certifies to the Board of Zoning Adjustment (after the notice of appeal is filed by
him) that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, caused imminent
peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment or by a court of record on application,
on notice to the city clerk or other administrative official from whom the appeal is taken and on due
cause shown.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 95 -




Section 14.11. Appeals from the Action of the Board

Any party aggrieved by any final judgment of the Board of Zoning Adjustment may appeal there from to
the circuit court or court of like jurisdiction as provided by Section 11-52-81, Code of Alabama, 1975,
or as same may be amended, within 15 days from the date of the board hearing.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 96 -




City of Chelsea Zoning Code

Intentional Blank Page

- 97 -




Article 15. Amendments and Changes

Section 15.1. Requirements for Change

Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning practice warrants such
action, the city council may amend, supplement, modify, or repeal the regulations or zoning district
boundaries herein established, however no amendment shall be considered unless it is first submitted
to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation.

Section 15.2. Petition for or Initiation of Change
A proposed change of the zoning district boundaries or of the regulations may be initiated by the
Planning Commission or by petition of one or more owners or authorized agents of such owners of
property within the area proposed to be changed.

Section 15.3. Action on Petition

Any proposed amendment, supplement, modification, or repeal shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission on the last workday of the month preceding the regularly scheduled Planning Commission
meeting in which the action will be presented. (Approved CCC 9/15/2017)

Section 15.4. Public Notice

15.4.1. At least 15 days prior to the scheduled Planning Commission public hearing, the Chairman of
the Planning Commission shall give written notice of the proposal to all adjacent property owners as
well as those property owners within 500 feet of the subject property.

15.4.2. Such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, first class,
postage prepaid, addressed to those property owners at their addresses submitted by the applicant at
the time the application was made. The notice shall also be published in a newspaper of general
circulation throughout the city and/or posting in four (4) conspicuous locations within the city (if
there is no newspaper of general circulation published within the city).

15.4.3. Any error in the addresses of such notices shall not invalidate the giving of such notice,
provided that not more than five percent (5%) of the total number of notices contain any such error.

15.4.4. Such notice shall contain the following:

A. Name of the applicant.

B. The location of the subject property.

C. The proposed use of the property requested to be rezoned.

D. The time, date, and location of the Planning Commission public hearing.

Section 15.5. City Council Action on Amendments

15.5.1. Upon receipt of the recommendation of the Planning Commission in favor of a proposed
rezoning amendment, the city council shall give a “first reading” of the proposed amendment at a
regularly scheduled city council meeting and set a date for a public hearing to consider action on such
request.

15.5.2. At least 15 days prior to the public hearing before the city council, the city clerk shall cause
to be published the proposed zoning amendment once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks (once in
its entirety and once in a synopsis form referring to the date and name of the newspaper in which the
proposed amendment was first published) in advance of its passage in a newspaper of general
circulation published within the city.

15.5.3. Said advertisement shall also contain a notice stating:

A. The name of the applicant.

B. The location of the subject property.

C. The proposed use of the property for which rezoning is being requested.
D. The time, date, and location of the city council public hearing.

15.5.4. Such notice shall further state that, at such public hearing, all persons who desire shall have
an opportunity of being heard in opposition to or in favor of the proposed amendment. In addition,

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 98 -




such notice shall be posted in four (4) conspicuous places within the city. However, if there is no
newspaper of general circulation published within the city, the city council must cause the synopsis
only to be posted in four (4) conspicuous locations within the city. Until these publication
requirements have been met, no adoption of a zoning ordinance or amendment thereto shall be valid.

15.5.5. The city clerk shall also give written notice to all adjacent property owners. Such notice shall
be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, first class, postage prepaid, addressed to
those property owners at their addresses as submitted by the applicant at the time application for
rezoning was made. Any error in the addresses of such notices shall not invalidate the giving of notice
provided not more than five percent (5%) of the total number of notices contain any such error.

15.5.6. At the time and place scheduled for the public hearing of the proposed amendment, the city
council shall hear the presentation of the applicant, review the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, and hear any argument in opposition to and/or support of the proposal by the general
public.

15.5.7. After such hearing, the city council may adopt the ordinance as recommended by the
Planning Commission or in such amended form as it deems best. However, if the city council makes
substantial changes in the ordinance as first advertised, the city council should hold another public
hearing after giving notice as described herein.

15.5.8. After the ordinance is adopted by the city council, it must again be published in the same
manner as all municipal ordinances, subject to the provisions of Section 11-45-8 of the Code of
Alabama.

Section 15.6. Limitations on Rezoning Requests

Should the city council reject a rezoning amendment proposal by a property owner, the same kind of
rezoning of the same tract of land will not be considered by the Planning Commission until a period of
12 months has elapsed from the date of such action by the city council. Further, a withdrawal of the
application for rezoning after the hearing held by the Planning Commission, but prior to the public
hearing held by the city council, shall also require a six (6)-month time period before another
application may be submitted.

Section 15.7. Fees

Before any action shall be taken as provided in this article, the applicant petitioning for a change shall
deposit with the Planning Commission a fee of $250.00 plus $10.00 per acre to cover the cost of
administering the foregoing procedure. In addition, there is a charge of $2.00 per adjacent property
owner to cover the cost of certified mailing cost and $50.00 for legal advertisement of the proposed
zoning change. Under no condition shall said sum or any part thereof be refunded for failure of such
proposed amendment to be enacted into law. No action shall be initiated for a zoning amendment
affecting the same parcel of land more often than once every 12 months, provided that by unanimous
resolution of the Planning Commission that such action may be initiated at any time.

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 99 -




Article 16. Legal Status Provisions

Section 16.1. Severability of Ordinance

This ordinance and the various articles, sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, supplements, etc.
contained and referenced herein are hereby declared to be severable. Should any section, provision, or
other element of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part
thereof, which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 16.2. Conflict with Other Regulations

Whenever the regulations of this ordinance or supplement thereto are more restrictive than required
under any other statute, the requirements of this ordinance and supplements thereto shall govern.
Whenever the provisions of any other statute are more restrictive than required by this ordinance or
supplements thereto, the provisions of such statute shall govern.

Section 16.3. Validity

This ordinance and the various articles, sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, supplements, etc.
contained and referenced herein are hereby declared to be severable. Should any section, provision, or
other element of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part
thereof, which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 16.4. Repeal of Existing Zoning Resolution

All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed. Any previous
resolutions referring to and/or authorizing such administration and regulation as provided for in this
ordinance, prior to as if in place of this ordinance, are also hereby repealed.

Section 16.5. Effect upon Outstanding Building Permits

Nothing contained herein shall require any change in plans, construction, size, or designed use of any
building, structure, or part thereof for which there is a valid outstanding permit on the date of passage
of this ordinance. However, any further construction or use shall be in conformance with this
ordinance.

Section 16.6. Effective Date
This ordinance shall take effect and be in force immediately after adoption by the City Council of the
City of Chelsea, Alabama.

Donethis ayo B = 3 eee :

‘Attest —
Mayor

|, Becky Landers, City Clerk of Chelsea, Alabama, do hereby certify that Ordinance Number
has been posted by me at the following places located within the corporate limits of
Chelsea.

 

 

 

 

 

 

This the day of ;

City Clerk

 

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 100 -




Intentional Blank Page

City of Chelsea Zoning Code - 101 -



