
CITY OF FAIRHOPE

FAIRHOPE, ALABAMA

ZONING ORDINANCE

ORDINANCE NO. 1253

ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON 27 JUNE 2005

Ride KANT, MAYOR

LERK/TREASURER

 

ATTEST:

     

GENIECE W. JOHN

Ord. No. a 4Published in

THE FAIRHOPE, COURIER
on
City Clerk




FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE   i 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

Article I. General 

A. Title 

B. Purpose and Authority 

C. Applicability 

1. Establishment of Districts 

2. Application of Regulations 

3. Interpretation of District Boundaries 

4. Adoption, Identification and Changes to the Official Zoning Map 

5. Text Amendments 

6. Newly Annexed Land 

7. Conflicts with Other Laws 

8. Severability and Validity 

 

Article II. Procedures 

A. Review Bodies 

1. City Council 

2. Planning Commission 

3. Director of Planning 

4. Board of Adjustments 

B. Applications  

C. Review Procedures 

1. Zoning Amendments 

2. Site Plan 

3. Board of Adjustment Application 

4. Permits and Certificates 

 

Article III. Zoning Districts  

A. Purpose and Intent of Zoning Districts 

B. Allowed Uses   

1. Use Table 

2. Accessory Uses 

3. Temporary Uses 

C. Dimension Standards  

1. Lots and Principle Structure - Dimension Table 

2. Residential Accessory Structures - Dimension Table 

3. Yards 

4. Free-standing Commercial Structures 

5. Waterfront Lots 

D. Special Conditions for Uses 

1. Recreational Vehicle Parks 

2. Townhouses 

3. Patio and Garden Homes 

4. Automobile Service Stations and Convenience Stores 

5. Home Occupations 

6. Cemeteries 

7. Storage and Parking of Trailers and Commercial Vehicles 

8. Personal Storage 

9. Accessory Dwelling Units 

10. Building Materials on Commercially Zoned Property 

11. Restaurants and Accessory Bars in the M-1 Light Industrial District 

 

Article IV. Site Design Standards 

A. Open Space 

B. Screening, Lighting and Landscape Material 



FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE   ii 

C. Streetscape  

D. Site Access and Internal Circulation 

E. Parking 

F. Stormwater Management  

G. Tree Preservation 

 

Article V. Special Districts and Uses 

A. PUD - Planned Unit Development 

B. CBD - Central Business District Overlay  

C. FH-1 Flood Hazard District 

D. R-6 Manufactured Home District 

E. AO - Airport Overlay 

F. P-1 Parking District 

G. TR - Tourism Resort District 

H. MO - Medical Overlay District 

I. HTD - Highway Transitional District 

 

Article VI. Village Districts  

A. VRM - Village Residential Mix 

B. NVC - Neighborhood Village Center 

C. CVC - Community Village Center 

D. Village Zoning Special Review Procedures 

 

Article VII. Non-conformities 

A. Purpose and Intent 

B. Non-conforming Structures 

C. Non-conforming Uses 

D. Non-conforming Lots 

E. Maintenance of Non-conformities 

F. Adjacent Land 

 

Article VIII. Enforcement 

A. Penalties 

B. Remedies 

C. Appeal 

 

Article IX. Definitions and Interpretation 

A. Interpretation 

B. Description of Uses 

C. Defined Terms 
 

Appendix A – Applications and Submittal Requirements 

 

Appendix B - Map Amendment Ordinances 

 

Appendix C – Text Amendment Ordinances 

 

 



Article I  Section A 
 

General  Title 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 1  

 

 

 

 

 

Article I 

General 
 

 

A. Title 

B. Purpose and Authority 

C. Applicability 

1. Establishment of Districts 

2. Application of Regulations 

3. Interpretation of District Boundaries 

4. Adoption, Identification and Changes to the Official Zoning Map 

5. Text Amendments 

6. Newly Annexed Land 

7. Conflicts with Other Laws 

8. Severability and Validity 
 

 

 

 

 

A. Title 

 
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance” for the City of Fairhope, Alabama. 

 
 

B. Purpose and Authority 
 

1. Authority 

 

This ordinance, and all subsequent amendments, is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by Section 11-52-1 

et seq. Code of Alabama, 1975 (as amended). 

 

2. Purpose 

 

This ordinance is adopted for the following purposes, all in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan of the City 

of Fairhope, Alabama: 

 

a. to lessen congestion in the streets; 

b. to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; 

c. to promote health and general welfare; 

d. to provide adequate light and air; 

e. to prevent overcrowding of land; 

f. to avoid undue concentration of land; and, 

g. to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public 

requirements. 
 
 



Article I  Section C 
 

General  Applicability 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 2  

 C. Applicability 
 

1. Establishment of Districts 

       

The following districts are established to maintain the character of the districts and their suitability for particular 

uses, and to conserve the value of buildings and encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the 

municipality. 

 

• R-A - Residential/Agriculture District 

• R-1 - Low Density Single-Family Residential District 

• R-1(a) - Low Density Single-Family Residential District 

• R-1(b) - Low Density Single-Family Residential District 

• R-1(c) - Low Density Single-Family Residential District 

• R-2 - Medium Density Single-Family Residential District 

• R-3 - High Density Single-Family Residential District 

• R-3 PGH - High Density Single-Family Patio Garden Home Residential District 

• R-3 TH - High Density Single-Family Townhouse Residential District 

• R-4 - Low density Multi-Family Residential District 

• R-5 - High Density Dwelling Residential District 

• R-6 - Manufactured Home District 

• B-1 - Local Shopping District 

• B-2 - General Business District 

• B-3a - Tourist Resort Lodging District 

• B-3b - Tourist Resort Commercial Service District 

• B-4 - Business and Professional District 

• M-1 - Light Industrial District 

• M-2 - General Industrial District 

• CBD - Central Business District Overlay 

• AO - Airport Overlay 

• P-1 - Parking District 

• FH-1 - Flood Hazard District 

• PUD – Planned Unit Development 

• VRM – Village Residential Mix 

• NVC – Neighborhood Village Center 

• CVC – Community Village Center 

 

2.  Application of Regulations 
 

a. Use: No building or land shall be used or occupied and no building or part there of shall be erected, 

constructed, moved, or altered except in conformity with the regulations for the district in which it is or is 

to be located. 

b.  Structures: No structure shall be erected, constructed or altered so as to exceed the height limit or 

dimensional standards specified in the regulations herein for the district in which it is located.  

c.  Lots: No lot shall be reduced in size below the minimum requirement for lot width or depth, front, side, or 

rear yard, inner or outer courts, lot area per family or other requirements of this ordinance.  This section 

shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use. 

 

3. Interpretation of District Boundaries 

 

Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the districts as shown on the official zoning 

map, the following rules shall apply:  

 

a. Unless otherwise indicated, the district boundaries shall be construed to follow property lines, land lot 

lines, center lines of public rights-of-way, shorelines of bodies of water, or civil boundaries. 

b. Where district boundaries are approximately parallel to the centerlines of rights-of-way or of shorelines of 

bodies of water, district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel to these lines at the distance 



Article I  Section C 
 

General  Applicability 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 3  

indicated on the official zoning map. If no distance is given, the dimensions shall be determined by the use 

of the scale shown on the official zoning map. 

c. Where a public right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to 

which it is reverted shall apply to the vacated or abandoned right-of-way. 

d. The final determination of a district boundary shall be made according to the legal description contained in 

the adopted ordinance.  If the description is incomplete, the city council shall determine the legislative 

intent and may, if necessary, adopt an amending ordinance to correct the district boundary. 

  

4. Adoption, Identification and Changes to the Official Zoning Map 

 

The current zoning map of the City, which is maintained by the Director of Planning and Building or his / her 

designee under the direction of the Mayor and kept on file at City Hall, shall continue to be the official zoning 

map of the City and nothing contained herein shall be construed to alter or amend the current zoning map.  A 

copy of said map is attached hereto as Exhibit “A”.  Future changes in district boundaries shall be made on the 

zoning map for convince and reference.  Map amendments to the zoning ordinance shall be made in accordance 

with the procedures established in Article II hereof.  This official ordinance approving the map change shall be 

recorded in Appendix A of the Zoning Ordinance.  In the event of a conflict between the map and this zoning 

ordinance or any amendment hereto, the legal description from the particular ordinance shall control.   

 

5. Text Amendments 

 

Text amendments to the Zoning Ordinance shall be made according to the procedures established in Article II.  

Ordinances amending the text of the Zoning Ordinance shall be recorded in Appendix C of this ordinance. 

 

6. Newly Annexed Land 

 

Property annexed into the City shall be zoned according to the following: 

a. Property shall have any zoning designation given to it by the City Council according to the procedures 

specified in this ordinance. 

b. Where no designation is given by the City Council and the property is otherwise un-zoned, it shall be 

classified as R1 – Low Density Single Family Residential District. 

c. Property annexed into the City that is zoned by Baldwin County shall be classified as the most similar 

district at the time of application, unless a different classification is given by the City Council.  The 

Director of Planning and Building shall make the determination of the most similar district.  Similar 

classifications do not require due process and public notice procedures before the Planning Commission or 

the City Council.  These requests are considered directly by the City Council at the time of annexation 

consideration.  If the applicant requests a different zoning district then the case shall follow the annexation 

contingent on zoning procedures. 

 

7. Conflicts with Other Laws 

 

Whenever the requirements of this ordinance conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted 

statutes, rules, regulations, or ordinances, the most restrictive, or that imposing higher standards, shall govern. 

 

8. Severability and Validity   

 

Each phrase, sentence, paragraph, section or other provision of this ordinance is severable from all other such 

phrases, sentences, paragraphs, sections and provisions.  Should any phrase, sentence, paragraph, section or 

provision of this ordinance be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not 

affect any other portion or provision of this ordinance. 
 

 



Article II  Section A 
 

Procedures  Review Bodies 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 4  

 

 

 

 

 

Article II 

Procedures 
 

 

A. Review Bodies 

1. City Council 

2. Planning Commission 

3. Director of Planning 

4. Board of Adjustments 

B. Applications  

C. Review Procedures 
1. Zoning Amendments 

2. Site Plan 

3. Board of Adjustment Application 

4. Permits and Certificates 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. Review Bodies 

 
1. City Council 

 

The City Council shall exercise all final legislative authority over zoning matters as provided in this ordinance. 

 

2. Planning Commission 

 

a. Establishment and Authority:  The Planning Commission of the City of Fairhope is established according to 

Title 11, Chapter 52 of the Code of Alabama (1975), as amended, and Article 17 of the City Code.  The 

Planning Commission shall exercise the authority granted by the Code of Alabama, the City Code, and the 

Zoning Ordinance. 

 

b. Memberships:  

(1) The commission shall consist of nine members having the following qualifications: 

• A member of the city council, to be selected by it;  

• The mayor; 

• An administrative official of the city, appointed by the mayor;  

• Six members, appointed by the mayor, who shall reside in or have as their principal place of 

employment, the City of Fairhope, Alabama or its planning jurisdiction who hold no other public 

office in the City of Fairhope. 

• This subsection is intended to comply with the terms of Chapter 52 of Title 11 of the Code of 

Alabama (1975), as amended, with respect to the members of the Planning Commission.  To the 

extent those terms are altered, amended, replaced or otherwise changed, this subsection shall be 

construed so as to apply with such altered, amended, replaced or changed terms. 

 



Article II  Section A 
 

Procedures  Review Bodies 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 5  

(2) The mayor, the city councilperson, and the city administrative official shall be ex-officio members of 

the commission having full privilege of participation in the business of the commission, including 

voting privileges.  Their terms shall correspond to their respective official tenures except that the terms 

of the administrative official selected by mayor shall terminate with the term of the selecting mayor. 

(3) All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in 

connection with their official duties.  All members shall be provided with relevant information 

outlining conflict of interest laws. 

(4) The City Director of Planning and Building shall serve in an advisory capacity to the commission and 

shall attend all meetings, unless excused by the commission, but shall not vote. 

(5)  The terms of the six members citizen employees shall be on accordance with the applicable law; 

provided; however, that nothing in this zoning ordinance shall be construed so as to shorten the term of 

any current citizen appointee.  

(6) The vacancy on the commission shall be filled for the un-expired term by the mayor in the case of 

members appointed by the mayor or by the council in the case of a member selected by the council.  

Members appointed by the mayor may be removed by the mayor and the member appointed by the 

council may be removed by the council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office after a 

public hearing held pursuant to written charges. 

 

c. Rules of Procedure: The Planning Commission shall establish bylaws under which to operate as provided 

by law. 

 

d. Duties and Powers Under Zoning Ordinance: The Planning Commission shall have the following powers 

and duties under the Zoning Ordinance: 

(1) To review and make recommendations on zoning amendments for compliance with the Comprehensive 

Plan. 

(2) To review and approve site plans consistent with the standards in this ordinance and the existing 

zoning for the property. 

(3) To propose zoning amendments to the City Council; 

(4) To advise the City Council on implementation of the Comprehensive Plan, and; 

(5) Other duties as authorized by the Code of Alabama (1975), as amended, and the City Code. 

 
 

3. Director of Planning 

 

The Director of Planning shall be the municipal zoning officer, or the zoning officer’s representative 

whose duties shall be as follows: 

a. The Director of Planning is authorized and empowered on behalf and in the name of the council 

to administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance including:   

 (1)  Receive applications; 

(2)  Inspect premises, and issue certificates of zoning compliance, and certificates of occupancy 

for uses and structures which are in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance; 

(3)  Interpret the meaning of the ordinance in the course of enforcement; 

(4)  Propose zoning amendments as provided in this ordinance; and, 

(5)  Advise the Planning Commission and City Council on implementation of the Comprehensive 

Plan. 

 

b. The Director of Planning shall keep records of certificates of occupancy issued, maps, plats and 

other documents with notations of all special conditions involved.  He shall file and safely keep 

copies of all sketches and plans submitted, and the same shall form a part of the records of his 

office and shall be public record. 
 

 
 

 

 



Article II  Section A 
 

Procedures  Review Bodies 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 6  

4. Board of Adjustments 

 

a. Establishment and Authority:  The Board of Adjustment of the City of Fairhope, Alabama is hereby 

established according to the Code of Alabama (1975), as amended.   

 

b. Membership:  

(1) The Board shall consist of five members, appointed by the City Council of the City of Fairhope, 

Alabama for overlapping terms of three years. 

(2) The initial appointment of the Board shall be as follows: two members for one year; two members for 

two years; and one member for three years. 

(3) Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial 

appointment.  Members shall be removable for cause by the council upon written charges and after 

public hearing. 

(4) No member shall hold any other public office or position. 

(5) Every member shall reside in the city limits of the City of Fairhope, Alabama. 

 

c. Rules of Procedure:  The Board shall observe the following procedures: 

(1) The board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance for the conduct of its 

affairs. 

(2) The board shall elect one of its members as chairman, who shall serve for one year or until he is 

reelected or his successor is elected.   

(3) The board shall appoint a secretary. 

(4) The meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at other times as the board may 

determine.  The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the 

attendance of witnesses by subpoena. 

(5) All meetings of the board shall be open to the public. 

(6) The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the voice vote of each member upon each 

question, or indicating absence or failure to vote, and shall keep records of its examinations and other 

official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the clerk and shall be a public 

record. 

 

d. Duties and Powers: The Board shall have the following duties and powers: 

(1) Administrative Review - To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, 

requirement, decision, or determination made by the Director of Planning and Building, or other 

administrative official, in the enforcement of this ordinance. 

(2) Special Exceptions - To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this ordinance upon which 

the board is required to pass under this ordinance.   

(3) Variances - To authorize upon appeal in specific cases variance from the terms of this ordinance not 

contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the 

provisions of this ordinance will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit 

of this ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. 

Prior to granting a variance, the Board shall find that: 

(a) There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in 

question because of its size, shape, or topography; 

(b) The application of this ordinance to the particular piece of property would create an unnecessary 

hardship; 

(c) Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and, 

(d) Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose 

and intent of this ordinance; provided however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land 

or building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance. 

(4) Uses Not Provided For: Whenever, in any district established under this ordinance, a use is neither 

specifically permitted or denied and an application is made by a property owner to the Director of 

Planning and Building for use, the Director shall refer the application to the board of adjustment which 

shall have the authority to permit the use or deny the use.  The use may be permitted if it is similar to 

and compatible with permitted uses in the district and in no way is in conflict with the general purpose 

and intent of this ordinance. 



Article II  Section B 
 

Procedures  Applications 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 7  

B. Applications 
 

All applications submitted under this ordinance shall be made on forms provided by the Director of Planning 

and Building.  All applications shall be made according to the published Planning Commission schedule.  In 

addition to the minimum information specified on the application forms, applicants may be asked, in the 

Director’s, Planning Commission’s, or City Council’s discretion, to submit additional information, data, or 

reports, as is reasonably necessary for the review bodies to make an informed decision on compliance of the 

application with this ordinance.  

 
 

C. Review Procedures 
 

Table 2-1: Procedures 

 

Application Type 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Review Body M
a

p
 A

m
en

d
m

e
n

t 

(R
ez

o
n

in
g

)*
 

 Z
o

n
in

g
 T

ex
t 

A
m

en
d

m
en

t 

S
it

e 
P

la
n

 A
p

p
ro

v
a

l 

A
d

m
in

is
tr

a
ti

v
e 

A
p

p
ea

l 

S
p

ec
ia

l 
E

x
ce

p
ti

o
n

 

V
a

ri
a

n
ce

 

B
u

il
d

in
g

 P
er

m
it

 

C
e
r
ti

fi
c
a

te
 o

f 

O
cc

u
p

a
n

c
y
/Z

o
n

in
g

 

C
o

m
p

li
a

n
c
e 

Director of Planning and 

Building 

A 

RR 

A 

RR 

A 

RR 

A 

RR 

A 

RR 

A 

RR 

A/RR 

D 

A/RR 

D 

Planning Commission H  

RR 

 

H  

RR 

 

RR      

City Council H 

D 

H 

D 

D      

Board of Adjustment    H 

D 

H 

D 

H 

D 

  

A = Determination of complete application subject to Section II.B. 
RR = Review and/or recommendation 

H = Public hearing subject to notice and procedure requirements of this Article. 

D = Final Decision 
*      See Article VI, Section D. for special expedited review procedures for the Village Zoning Districts. 

 

 

1. Zoning Amendments 

 

a. Initiation – 

(1) Zoning Text Amendment - An amendment to the text of the zoning ordinance shall only be initiated by 

the Director of Planning and Building, members of the Planning Commission, or members of the City 

Council.  Other individuals requesting an amendment to the text of the zoning ordinance must get one 

of these authorized individuals to sponsor the proposed amendment.   

(2) Zoning Map Amendment - A zoning map amendment to rezone property may be initiated by a 

majority of the City Council, a majority of the Planning Commission, or the property owner. 

 

b. Application - An application for a zoning amendment shall be submitted on the application form provided 

by the Director of Planning and Building.  The application shall include all information requested on the 

application form.  The Director of Planning and Building shall determine if the application is complete.  If 



Article II  Section C 
 

Procedures  Review Procedures 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 8  

the application is not complete, the Director shall notify the applicant in writing indicating necessary steps 

to cure the incomplete application. 

 

c. Notice – 

(1) Notice of Planning Commission Hearing 

(a) Published Notice – Notice shall be published once, at least 15 days prior to the hearing, in a 

newspaper of general circulation.  The notice shall include the following: 

(i) A provision that the application will be considered by the Planning Commission; 

(ii) A copy of the proposed amendment or application is available at City Hall;  

(iii) The time and place that the application will be considered by the Planning Commission; 

(iv) All persons shall have an opportunity to be heard in opposition to or in favor of the 

amendment; 

(v) In the case of a zoning map amendment, a general description of any property, including any 

common name by which the property is known. 

(b) Mailed Notice –The applicant shall furnish the City the names and mailing addresses of all 

persons owning property within 300 feet of any specific property that is the subject of the 

application.  Names and addresses shall be from the latest records of the county revenue office and 

accuracy of the list shall be the applicant’s responsibility.  Where land within 300 feet involves 

leasehold property, the names and addresses of the landowner and the leasehold improvements 

shall be provided to the City. 

(c) Posted Notice - The applicant shall post on the property being considered for a zoning change a 

sign that gives public notice.  This sign shall be posted adjacent to a publicly dedicated street.  The 

sign shall be furnished by the City at the time of application.  The sign shall be posted no later 

than 15 days before the Planning Commission meetings and shall remain posted until after final 

action by the City Council.  The applicant shall remove the sign from the property and return it to 

the City within 2 days of final action by the City Council.  It is the sole responsibility of the 

applicant to post the sign in accordance with these regulations.  Failure to post this sign may result 

in nullification of the zoning change decision and application.  

(d) Upon determination of a complete application, notice of the application will be published and/or 

mailed.  The applicant shall be responsible for all costs of notification and filing fees.  

(2) Notice of City Council Hearing - Prior to the City Council hearing, two notices shall occur in a 

newspaper of general circulation in the City, or where no such paper exists, in four conspicuous places 

in the City.  Each notice shall be at least 15 days prior to the date when the City Council will consider 

the application. 

(a) Initial Publication - The initial publication shall be according to the following: 

(i) The text of the proposed amendment in full or the application; 

(ii) The time and place that the application will be considered by the City Council;  

(iii) Notice that all persons shall have an opportunity to be heard in opposition to or in favor of the 

application. 

(b) Second Publication – The second publication shall be according to the following: 

(i) A synopsis of the proposed application; 

(ii) The date and name of the newspaper or locations of the first publication; 

(iii) The time and place that the application will be considered by the review body; 

(iv) Notice that all persons shall have an opportunity to be heard in opposition to or in favor of the 

application. 

(3) Compliance with Law- the foregoing requirements are intended with applicable law relating to notice. 

To the extent that such requirements do not so comply with applicable law or in the event any 

applicable law is hereafter altered, amended or otherwise modified, this section C.1.c. shall be 

construed so as to comply with such altered, amended or modified law. 
 

d. Review -The proposed amendment shall be reviewed according to the following: 

(1) A complete application shall be reviewed by the Director of Planning and Building.   

(2) The application shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at the next available meeting.  The 

Planning Commission shall consider the application and take one of the following actions: 

(a) Recommend approval of the application to the City Council; 

(b) Recommend approval of the application to the City Council, conditioned on specific revisions; 



Article II  Section C 
 

Procedures  Review Procedures 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 9  

(c) Recommend denial of the application to the City Council; or 

(d) Continue discussion of the application for further study.  An application shall only be continued 

one time without the applicant’s consent before the Planning Commission shall pass it along to the 

City Council for action.  Any continuance shall be for a time reasonably necessary to completely 

and adequately address the issue of further study.  An applicant may agree to more continuances. 

(3) The application shall be submitted to the City Council, only with the recommendation of the Planning 

Commission.  The City Council shall consider the application at a public hearing and take one of the 

following actions: 

(a) Approve the application; 

(b) Approve the application, conditioned on specific revisions; 

(c) Deny the application;  

(d) Continue discussion of the application for further study.  An application shall only be continued 

one time without the applicant’s consent before the City Council shall take one of the above 

actions. Any continuance shall be for a time reasonably necessary to completely and adequately 

address the issue of further study.  An applicant may agree to more continuances; or 

(e) Remand the proposed amendment to the Director of Planning and Building or to the Planning 

Commission for further study and discussion.  An application may be remanded only once without 

the applicant’s consent before the City Council shall take one of the above actions.  An applicant 

may agree to more remands. 

 

e. Criteria – The application shall be reviewed based on the following criteria: 

(1) Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan; 

(2) Compliance with the standards, goals, and intent of this ordinance; 

(3) The character of the surrounding property, including any pending development activity; 

(4)  Adequacy of public infrastructure to support the proposed development; 

(5) Impacts on natural resources, including existing conditions and ongoing post-development conditions; 

(6) Compliance with other laws and regulations of the City; 

(7) Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations of other jurisdictions; 

(8) Impacts on adjacent property including noise, traffic, visible intrusions, potential physical impacts, and 

property values;and, 

(9) Impacts on the surrounding neighborhood including noise, traffic, visible intrusions, potential physical 

impacts, and property values. 

 

f. Limitation on Re-submittal – No application for a zoning map amendment shall be considered within 365 

days from a final decision on a previous application for the same or similar parcel of land.  An application 

may be withdrawn without prejudice prior the public hearing being opened by the Planning Commission.  

A request to withdraw an application shall be made to the Director in writing. 

 

g. Nullification for Misrepresentation – Any rezoning decision that is based in any part on testimony, plans, 

studies or other support that is later found to have been a material misrepresentation may be summarily 

nullified.  Summary nullification shall require evidence of the misrepresentation at a formal Council 

meeting and the concurring vote of 4 members of the City Council.  It shall not require the notice and 

hearing necessary for a formal zoning amendment because the initial Council action will be determined null 

and void due to the material misrepresentation.   
 

2. Site Plan 

 

a. Initiation – Review of (preliminary) site plans accompanying a zoning map amendment shall be reviewed 

according to the zoning amendment procedures.  (Final) site plans that do not accompany a zoning map 

amendment shall be reviewed according to this section.   Site plan approval is required when any 

commercial building(s) located in a business-zoning district (industrial zoning excluded) or in the CBD 

overlay: 

(1) Has a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet or greater; or, 

(2) More than 30% of the lot (excluding the building) is impervious; or 

(3) All applications for zoning map amendments to rezone property to any of the Village Districts in 

Article VI.  However, applicants for rezoning to the village districts may elect to use the special review 



Article II  Section C 
 

Procedures  Review Procedures 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 10  

procedures in Article VI, Section D. for review of the rezoning application and site plans associated 

with a village development.  

(4) A mandatory site plan review application for all mixed-use projects electing to build to 35 feet height 

with 33% residential, regardless of whether or not it triggers site plan review approval, must make 

application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for approval. 

 

b. Application –An application for site plan review shall be submitted on the application form provided by the 

Director of Planning and Building.  The application shall include all information requested on the 

application form. Preliminary review with the Director and the Planning Commission, prior to a formal 

application is encouraged.  If the application is not complete, the Director shall notify the applicant in 

writing indicating necessary steps to cure the incomplete application.  The application shall be submitted 

with drawings showing the location of the site and all existing and proposed buildings with sufficient 

information to evaluate impacts on adjacent properties.  Sheet size shall be large enough to document all 

physical features and shall be suitable for public record.  The application does not require public notice nor 

public hearing. 

 

c. Review – Site plan review shall occur according to the following:   

(1) A complete application shall be reviewed by the Director of Planning and Building.  

(2) Applications shall be submitted according to the published Planning Commission schedule.  The 

Planning Commission shall consider the application and take one of the following actions: 

(a) Approve the site plan; 

(b) Approve the site plan, conditioned on specific revisions; 

(c) Deny the site plan; or 

(d) Continue discussion of the application for further study.  An application shall only be continued 

one time without the applicant’s consent before the Planning Commission shall take one of the 

above actions.  An applicant may agree to more continuances. 

(3) The City Council shall consider the site plan only after review and recommendation from the Planning 

Commission.  The City Council shall have the final authority on site plan approval.   

 

d. Criteria – The application shall be reviewed based on the following criteria: 

(1) Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan; 

(2) Compliance with any other approved planning documents; 

(3) Compliance with the standards, goals, and intent of this ordinance and applicable zoning districts; 

(4) Compliance with other laws and regulations of the City; 

(5) Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations of other jurisdictions; 

(6) Impacts on adjacent property including noise, traffic, visible intrusions, potential physical impacts, and 

property values; 

(7) Impacts on the surrounding neighborhood including noise, traffic, visible intrusions, potential physical 

impacts, and property values; 

(8)  Overall benefit to the community;  

(9) Compliance with sound planning principles;  

(10) Compliance with the terms and conditions of any zoning approval;  

(11) Any other matter relating to the health, safety, and welfare of the community; 

(12) Property boundaries with dimensions and setback lines; 

(13) Location of proposed buildings and structures indicating sizes in square feet; 

(14) Data to show percentage of lot covered with existing and proposed buildings; 

(15) Elevations indicating exterior materials; 

(16) The locations, intensity, and height of exterior lights; 

(17) The locations of mechanical equipment; 

(18) Outside storage and/or display; 

(19) Drive-up window locations (must be away from residential uses/districts and not in front of building); 

(20) Curb-cut detail and location(s); 

(21) Parking, loading, and maneuvering areas; 

(22) Landscaping plan in accordance with the City Landscape Ordinance;  

(23) Location, materials, and elevation of any and all fences and/or walls; 

 



Article II  Section C 
 

Procedures  Review Procedures 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 11  

(24) Dumpster location and screening; and 

(25) Location and size of all signage. 

 

e. Effect and Limitation on Approval – Site plan approval stands for 365 days from the approval date.  If the 

building permit has not been issued within this time, the site plan approval shall be null and void.  The 

Council may consider a request for extension of this time up to 180 additional days for good cause.  The 

site plan may be amended, but amendments shall be subject to the same procedures as a new site plan 

approval.   

 

f. Modifications - Modifications in substantial conformance with an approved site plan may be approved by 

the Director of Planning and Building if they meet the following conditions: 

 (1) The modification addresses actual site conditions that were not anticipated in the reviewed site plan; 

(2) The modification meets the intent of the site plan standards in an equivalent or improved manner than 

the original site plan; and 

(3) The modification results in no greater impact on adjacent property than the approved site plan. 

 

g. Nullification for Misrepresentation – Any site plan decision that is based in any part on testimony, plans, 

studies or other support that is later found to have been a material misrepresentation may be summarily 

nullified.  Summary nullification shall require evidence of the misrepresentation at a formal Council 

meeting and the concurring vote of 4 members of the City Council.  It shall not require a formal site plan 

review process because the initial Council action will be determined null and void due to the material 

misrepresentation.   

 

3. Board of Adjustment Application 

 

a. Initiation - Applications to the board of adjustment may be made by: 

(1) Any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the City affected by any 

decision of the administrative officer; 

(2) Any person requesting a variance from the standards of this ordinance; or 

(3) Any person requesting a special exception as provided under this ordinance. 

 

b. Application - An application for a Board of Adjustment review shall be submitted on the application form 

provided by the Director of Planning and Building.  The application shall include all information requested 

on the application form, including grounds for the request for relief.  Applications shall be made according 

to the published Zoning Board of Adjustment schedule.  If the application is not complete, the Director 

shall notify the applicant in writing indicating necessary steps to cure the incomplete application. 

 

c. Notice –  

(1) Published Notice – At least 15 days in advance of the hearing, notice shall be published in a newspaper 

of general circulation.  The notice shall include the following: 

(a) A provision that the application will be considered by the Board; 

(b) A copy of the application is available at City Hall;  

(c) The time and place that the application will be considered by the Board; 

(d) All persons shall have an opportunity to be heard in opposition to or in favor of the amendment; 

(e) A general description of subject property, including any common name by which the property is 

known. 

(2) Mailed Notice –The applicant shall furnish the City the names and mailing addresses of all persons 

owning property within 300 feet of the property that is the subject of the application.  Names and 

addresses shall be from the latest records of the county revenue office and accuracy of the list shall be 

the applicant’s responsibility.  Where land within 300 feet involves leasehold property, the names and 

addresses of the landowner and the leasehold improvements shall be provided to the City. 

(3) Upon determination of a complete application, notice of the application will be published and/or 

mailed.  The applicant shall be responsible for all costs of notification and filing fees. 

(4)  Compliance with Law- The foregoing requirements are intended with applicable law relating to notice.  

To the extent that such requirements do not so comply with applicable law or in the event any 



Article II  Section C 
 

Procedures  Review Procedures 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 12  

applicable law is hereafter altered, amended or otherwise modified, this section C.3.c. shall be 

construed so as to comply with such altered, amended or modified law. 

 

d. Review - Application review shall occur according to the following:   

(1) A complete application shall be reviewed by the Director of Planning and Building.  The Director shall 

offer a written report on the merits of the application to the Zoning Board of Adjustments. 

(2) The application shall be submitted to the Board at the scheduled public hearing, with the Director’s 

report.  The Board shall consider the application and take one of the following actions: 

(a) Grant the requested relief; 

(b) Grant the requested relief with specific conditions; 

(c) Deny the requested relief; or 

(d) Continue discussion of the application for further study.  An application shall only be continued 

one time without the applicant’s consent before the Board can take one of the above actions.  An 

applicant may agree to more continuances. 

 

e. Criteria –  

(1) An application for a variance shall be granted only on the concurring vote of four Board members 

finding that:   

(a) There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in 

question because of its size, shape, or topography; 

(b) The application of the ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary 

hardship.  Personal financial hardship is not a justification for a variance. 

(c) Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and, 

(d) Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good and impair the purpose 

and intent of this ordinance; provided however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land 

or building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance. 

(2) Any other application to the Board shall be reviewed under the following criteria and relief granted 

only upon the concurring vote of four Board members: 

(a) Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan; 

(b) Compliance with any other approved planning document; 

(c) Compliance with the standards, goals, and intent of this ordinance; 

(d) The character of the surrounding property, including any pending development activity; 

(e)  Adequacy of public infrastructure to support the proposed development; 

(f) Impacts on natural resources, including existing conditions and ongoing post-development 

conditions; 

(g) Compliance with other laws and regulations of the City; 

(h) Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations of other jurisdictions; 

(i) Impacts on adjacent property including noise, traffic, visible intrusions, potential physical impacts, 

and property values; 

(j) Impacts on the surrounding neighborhood including noise, traffic, visible intrusions, potential 

physical impacts, and property values. 

(k)  Overall benefit to the community;  

(l) Compliance with sound planning principles;  

(m) Compliance with the terms and conditions of any zoning approval; and 

(n) Any other matter relating to the health, safety, and welfare of the community. 

 

f. Effect of Appeal – An appeal to the Board stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the application 

appealed from unless the Director certifies to the Board that a stay would cause imminent peril to life and 

property.  In such cases, proceedings will not be stayed, unless by operation of a court of competent 

jurisdiction.  If an appeal fails for any reason, the stay shall be lifted. 

 

g. Effect of Variance - Any variance granted according to this section and which is not challenged on appeal 

shall run with the land provided that: 

(1) The variance is acted upon according to the application and subject to any conditions of approval 

within 365 days of the granting of the variance or final decision of appeal, whichever is later; and 

(2) The variance is recorded with the Judge of Probate. 



Article II  Section C 
 

Procedures  Review Procedures 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 13  

 

h. Limitation on Re-submission – An application for the same parcel of land shall not be submitted within 365 

days of final decision of the Board.  Any application may be withdrawn without prejudice prior to the 

opening of the hearing by the Board.  A request to withdraw an application shall be submitted to the 

Director in writing. 

 

i. Appeal – Any party aggrieved by any final judgment or decision of the Board may appeal to the circuit 

court.  Appeal to the circuit court must occur within 15 days of the Board’s decision.  Notice of the appeal 

shall be filed with the Board specifying the judgment or decision being appealed.  The foregoing 

requirement relating to the time in which a party must appeal a decision of the board is intended to comply 

with applicable law.  To the extent that applicable law is hereafter altered, amended or otherwise modified 

this section c.3.i shall be construed to as to comply with such altered, amended or modified law.   
 

4.  Permits and Certificates 

 

Permits and certificates shall be issued in accordance with the following provisions; 

 

a.  Commencement of Building: It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation or construction of any 

building or other structure, including accessory structures, or to store building materials or erect temporary 

field offices, or to commence the moving, alterations, or repair of any structure, including accessory 

structures, until the building inspector of the municipality has issued for such work a building permit 

including a statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure in all respects 

conforms with the provisions of this ordinance.  Application for the building permit shall be made to the 

building inspector on forms provided for that purpose and shall be accompanied by payment of the required 

fee. 

 

b.  Approval of Plans and Issuance of Building Permit: It shall be unlawful for the municipal building 

inspector to approve any plans or issue a building permit for any excavation or construction until he has 

inspected such plans in detail and found them in conformity with this ordinance.  The municipal building 

inspector shall require that every application for a building permit for excavation, construction, use of land, 

moving or alteration be accompanied by a dimensioned plan or plat showing sufficient detail to enable the 

municipal building inspector to ascertain whether the proposed excavation, construction, use of land, 

moving or alteration is in conformance with this ordinance.  At a minimum the plan or plat shall show:  

(1) The actual shape, proportion and dimensions of the lot to be built upon; 

(2) The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures to be erected, altered, or moved and 

any building or other structures already on the lot; 

(3) The existing and intended use of all such buildings or other structures; and 

(4) The adequacy of provisions for control of surface drainage. 

 

 If the proposed excavation, construction, moving, or alteration as set forth in the application, are in 

conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, the building inspector of the municipality shall issue a 

building permit accordingly.  If an application for a building permit is not approved, the building inspector 

of the municipality shall state in writing on the application the cause for such disapproval.  Issuance of a 

building permit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving any provision of this ordinance. 

 

c. Permits Requiring Planning Commission Review:  Any permit or certificate meeting the standards of 

Section C.2.a. of this Article shall first require review and approval of a site plan by the Planning 

Commission prior to issuance of the permit or certificate. 

 

d. Expiration of Building Permit: A building permit shall not be transferable and shall be issued only to the 

applicant.  It shall expire if work is not begun within 180 days from the date of issuance and the work for 

the entire project has not been completed within 365 days after issuance of the building permit.  Request for 

a 90-day extension may be considered upon the applicant’s request made prior to the permit expiration. 

  



Article II  Section C 
 

Procedures  Review Procedures 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 14  

e. Modification:   It shall be unlawful for the owner, after he has obtained approval of design plans, to change 

or substantially modify plans, either during construction or after completion without specific written 

approval of the building inspector. 

 

f. Certificate of Zoning Compliance and Occupancy: No land or building or other structure erected, moved or 

altered in its use shall be used until the building inspector of the municipality shall have issued a Certificate 

of Occupancy and the Director of Planning and Building shall have issued a Certificate of Zoning 

Compliance stating that such land or structure is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this 

ordinance. The Director shall perform the final inspection within reasonable time after receiving a request, 

and issue either a Certificate of Zoning Compliance or a denial in writing.  A denial shall state the reasons 

for denial.  Any person or firm who occupies or causes to be occupied any premises without a Certificate of 

Occupancy and/or a Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall be subject to citation for violation of this 

ordinance and shall be subject to the all remedies and penalties hereof. 

 

 

 



Article III  Section A 
 

Zoning Districts  Purpose and Intent 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 15  

 

 

 

Article III 

Zoning Districts  
 

A. Purpose and Intent 

1. RA Residential/Agriculture District 

2. R-1 Low Density Single-Family Residential District 

        R-1(a) 

        R-1(b) 

        R-1(c) 

3. R-2 Medium Density Single-Family Residential District 

4. R-3 High Density Single-Family Residential District  

5. R-3 PGH High Density Single-Family Patio/Garden Home Residential District 

6. R-3 TH High Density Single-Family Townhouse Residential District  

7. R-4 Low Density Multi-Family Residential District 

8. R-5 High Density Dwelling Residential District 

9. R-6 Mobile Home Park District 

10. B-1 Local Shopping District 

11. B-2 General Business District 

12. B-3a Tourist Resort Lodging District 

13. B-3b Tourist Resort Commercial Service District 

14. B-4 Business and Professional District 

15. M-1 Light Industrial District 

16. M-2 General Industrial District 

17. PUD Planned Unit Development 

18. CBD Overlay 

19. Airport Overlay 

20. Flood Hazard District 

21. Parking District 

22. VRM – Village Residential Mix  

23. NVC – Neighborhood Village Center  
24. CVC – Community Village Center 

B. Allowed Uses  
1. Use Table 

2. Accessory Uses 

3. Temporary Uses 

C. Dimension Standards  
1. Lots and Principle Structure – Dimension Table 

2. Residential Accessory Structures – Dimension Table 

3. Yards 

4. Free-standing Commercial Structures 

D. Special Conditions for Uses 

 

 

A. Purpose and Intent 

 
The following zoning districts, established pursuant to Section 1.C.1 of Article I., are for the purpose of promoting 

the health, safety, morals and general welfare, and for the additional purposes and intent listed in Articles III, IV, V, 

and VI of the Zoning Ordinance, all in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan. 

 



Article III  Section A 
 

Zoning Districts  Purpose and Intent 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 16  

1. R-A Residential/Agriculture District:  This district is intended as a rural environment providing primarily 

agriculture and agriculture-related uses.  Residential uses are allowed at overall low density to support rural and 

agriculture lifestyles proximate to the city.  This district may also be used as a “holding zone” for future 

development in accordance with the comprehensive plan, when future conditions allow for efficient expansion 

of urban services.   

 

2. R-1 Low Density Single-Family Residential District:  This district is intended to provide choices of low-density 

suburban residential environment consisting of single-family homes on large parcels of land.  It is sub-classified 

into four categories (R-1, R-1a, R-1b, and R-1c) based on lot sizes. 

 

3. R-2 Medium Density Single-Family Residential District:  This district is intended as a medium density single-

family urban residential district, with lots of moderate size.  

 

4. R-3 High Density Single-Family Residential District: This district is intended as a high-density single-family 

urban residential district with lots of relatively small size as compared to the preceding single-family residential 

districts. 

 

5. R-3 PGH High Density Single-Family Patio/Garden Home Residential District: This district is intended to 

provide areas that will be limited to single-family development of a patio/garden home nature where only one 

(1) side yard is required.  The regulations of the R-3 PGH District shall apply to property zoned R-3 PGH as of 

July 10, 2000.  Development of patio homes after this date shall use the PUD zoning districts. 

 

6. R-3 TH High Density Single-Family Townhouse Residential District: This district is intended to provide areas 

exclusively for the development of town houses on a high-density basis where no side yards are required. 

 

7. R-4 Low Density Multi-Family Residential District:  This district is intended to provide a medium high density 

single-family structure and two to four family units to a building structure. 

 

8. R-5 High Density Dwelling Residential District: This district is intended to provide opportunity, within a 

general protected residential environment, for the highest residential district density considered as appropriate to 

the environmental character of the city.  Within this district it is also considered suitable to include other uses of 

a type considered not incompatible with a good high-density living environment and providing for needed 

community services.  

 

9. R-6 Mobile Home Park District: This district is intended to provide space at appropriate locations consistent 

with community objectives for the establishment of mobile home parks which provide for the establishment of 

permanent mobile homes for the amenities conducive to an adequate living environment. 

 

10. B-1 Local Shopping District:  This district is intended to provide for limited retail convenience goods and 

personal service establishments in residential neighborhoods and to encourage the concentration of these uses in 

one (1) location for each residential neighborhood rather than in scattered sites occupied by individual shops 

throughout a neighborhood.  Restaurants in the B-1 zoning district may be permitted only on appeal to the 

Board of Adjustments and may be subject to special conditions.  Drive thru restaurants shall not be permitted in 

the B-1 zoning district. 

 

11. B-2 General Business District: This district is intended to provide opportunity for activities causing noise and 

heavy traffic, not considered compatible in the more restrictive business district. These uses also serve a 

regional as well as a local market and require location in proximity to major transportation routes.   Recreational 

vehicle parks, very light production and processing activities are included. 

 

12. B-3a Tourist Resort Lodging District:  This district is intended to provide commercial and resort areas at 

appropriate locations to serve the needs of tourists visiting the Bay Beaches and related recreational and cultural 

attractions.  Commercial activities restricted to restaurants, which are attached to or are an integral part of the 

complex are permitted. 

 



Article III  Section A 
 

Zoning Districts  Purpose and Intent 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 17  

13. B-3b Tourist Resort Commercial Service District: This district is intended for a range of commercial and resort 

residential uses at appropriate locations to serve the needs of tourists. 

 

14. B-4 Business and Professional District:  This district is intended to provide opportunity for business 

establishments of a professional nature and is restricted to offices and businesses, which provide specific 

corporate functions or professional services to the general public. 

 

15. M-1 Light Industrial District:  This district is intended to provide a suitable protected environment for 

manufacturing, research and wholesale establishments which are clean, quiet and free of hazardous or 

objectionable emissions, and generate little industrial traffic.  Industrial parks should be encouraged.  Locations 

should be in accordance with comprehensive plans. 

 

16. M-2 General Industrial District:  This district is intended to provide opportunity for the location of industrial, 

manufacturing, processing, warehousing, or research and testing operations that, due to employment of heavy 

equipment or machinery or to the nature of the materials and processes employed, require special location and 

development safeguards to prevent pollution of the environment by noise, vibration, odors or other factors, and 

may also require extensive sites for storage and parking, may require extensive community facilities or generate 

heavy motor traffic.  Access to major transportation facilities is usually needed.  Locations should be in 

accordance with the Comprehensive Plan and special review is required for some. 

  

17. PUD Planned Unit Development: This district is intended to encourage innovative development that meets 

comprehensive plan goals and is tailored to the unique constraints and conditions of a particular site.  This 

district allows flexibility in uses, designs, and building layouts as opposed to other zoning districts to better 

serve community needs.  See Article V., Section A for more detailed standards regarding this district. 

   

18. CBD Overlay District: This district is intended to preserve downtown Fairhope as the regional village center 

and as the focal point of the City, in accordance with the comprehensive plan.  The district encourages infill 

development, including shopping, restaurant and entertainment, cultural and artistic institutions, offices, 

government functions, and residential uses, provided it creates a pedestrian oriented atmosphere and is 

consistent with the historic fabric of downtown. 

   

19. Airport Overlay District: This district is intended to preserve the ongoing operation of the Fairhope Municipal 

Airport as an economic asset for the community by preventing land uses incompatible with the operations of a 

municipal airport.   

   

20. Flood Hazard District: This district is intended to secure life and property from peril and damage of natural 

flood hazards, protect property values, and ensure compliance with Federal flood insurance eligibility 

requirements. 

   

21. Parking District: This district is intended for those situations were parking may be provided more efficiently 

and with less impact on goals for the overall surrounding areas by consolidating and sharing parking in one 

location. 

 

22. VRM Village Residential Mix: This district is intended to create walkable neighborhoods that place a variety of 

residential types within close proximity to open space and village centers that meet the majority of needs for 

daily living.  This district is developed to more directly implement the neighborhood component of the 

Comprehensive Plan.  See Article VI, Section A for more detailed standards regarding this district. 

   

23.  NVC Neighborhood Village Center: This district is intended to create walkable commercial areas to support 

adjacent neighborhoods.  This district is developed to more directly implement the Neighborhood Village 

Center component of the Comprehensive Plan.  See Article VI, Section B. for more detailed standards regarding 

this district. 

  

24. CVC Community Village Center: This district is intended to create a community center that serves a broad range 

of neighborhoods that may be automobile-oriented but still creates a walkable commercial center accessible by 

a variety of modes of transportation.  This district is created to more directly implement the Community Village 



Article III  Section A 
 

Zoning Districts  Purpose and Intent 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 18  

Center component of the Comprehensive Plan.  See Article VI, Section C. for more detailed standards regarding 

this district. 

 

B. Allowed Uses  
 

1. Use Table – Table 3-1 indicates seven categories of uses: (1) residential; (2) civic; (3) office; (4) retail; (5) 

service; (6) manufacturing, and (7) rural.  Within each category, specific uses are listed and indicated as either 

allowed, allowed subject to special conditions, or allowed by special exception. 

 
See Table 3-1: Use Table - Zoning Districts and Specific Land Uses 

 

 



Article III  Section B 
 

Zoning Districts  Allowed Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 19  

 

 

 

Table 3-1:  Use table 
 

 

Zoning District 

 

 

 

 

 

Uses Categories / 

 Specific Uses R
-A

 

R
-1

(a
,b

,c
) 

R
-2

 

R
-3

 T
H

 

R
-3

 P
/G

H
 

R
-3

 

R
-4

 

R
-5

 

R
-6

 

B
-1

  

B
-2

 

B
-3

a 

B
-3

b
 

B
-4

 

M
-1

 

M
-2

 

P
U

D
 

V
R

M
 

N
V

C
 

C
V

C
 

H
T

D
 

Dwelling                 

U
se

s 
in

 t
h

e 
P

U
D

 D
is

tr
ic

t 
sh

al
l 

b
e 

sp
ec

if
ie

d
 b

as
ed

 o
n

 a
 d

ev
el

o
p

m
en

t 
p

la
n

 a
cc

o
rd

in
g

 t
o

 t
h

e 
st

an
d

ar
d

s 
an

d
 p

ro
ce

d
u

re
s 

o
f 

th
is

 o
rd

in
an

ce
 

    

Single-family  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫   ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫   ⚫   ⚫ 

Two-family       ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫    ⚫   ⚫ 

Townhouse                  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Patio Home                     

Multiple-family / Apartment        ⚫             

Manufactured Home                       

Mixed-use          ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫    ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Accessory Dwelling                     

Estate                 ⚫    

Civic                     

Elementary School  ⚫ ⚫   ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Secondary School  ⚫ ⚫   ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Education Facility  ⚫ ⚫   ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫   ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Library  ⚫ ⚫   ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Place of Worship                 ⚫    

Cemetery                      

Hospital                     

Public Open Space ⚫ ⚫ ⚫   ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Common Open Space ⚫ ⚫ ⚫   ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Community Center or Club                     

Public Utility                     

Office                     

General          ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Professional          ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Home Occupation                     

Retail                     

Grocery          ⚫ ⚫  ⚫  ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫  

Convenience Store                     

General Merchandise          ⚫ ⚫  ⚫  ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫  

Shopping Center            ⚫          

Automobile Service Station                     

Outdoor Sales Limited                     

Outdoor Sales Lot                     

Garden Center                     

Service                     

Convalescent or Nursing Home                  ⚫ ⚫  

Clinic                     

Outdoor Recreation Facility             ⚫        

Day Care                  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

General Personal Services          ⚫ ⚫    ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫  

Mortuary or Funeral Home                      

Automobile Repair           ⚫    ⚫ ⚫     

Indoor Recreation          ⚫ ⚫    ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫  

Dry Cleaner / Laundry          ⚫           

Personal Storage                     

Bed & Breakfast            ⚫    ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫ 

Hotel / Motel            ⚫ ⚫        

Boarding House or Dormitory           ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫  

Recreational Vehicle Park                     

Restaurant           ⚫  ⚫     ⚫ ⚫  

Bar           ⚫  ⚫     ⚫ ⚫  

Entertainment Venue           ⚫          

Marina                      

Kennel or Animal Hospital                     

Warehouse               ⚫ ⚫     

Junk Yard or Salvage Yard                     

Manufacturing                     

Limited               ⚫ ⚫  ⚫ ⚫  

Light               ⚫ ⚫     

General                ⚫     

Food Processing                     

Rural                     

Agriculture ⚫                    

Rural Market ⚫                    

Plant Nursery ⚫                    
 

⚫  Permitted subject to general ordinance standards and conditions. 

  Permitted subject to special conditions listed in the ordinance 

   Permitted only on appeal and subject to special conditions 



Article III  Section B 
 

Zoning Districts  Allowed Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 20  

2. Accessory Uses – Any use may be established as an accessory use to any permitted principal use in any district 

provided that such accessory use: 

(a)  is customarily incidental to and is maintained and operated as part of the principle use; 

(b)  is not hazardous to and does not impair the use or enjoyment of nearby property in greater degree than the 

principle use with which it is associated; 

(c)  does not create levels of noise, odors, vibration and lighting, or degrees of traffic congestion, dust or 

pollutants, in a greater amount than is customarily created by principle use; and 

(d)  is not located in minimum exterior yard.  

 
3. Temporary Uses – The following temporary uses are allowed in any district subject to the limitations and 

standards specified. 

(a) Garage sale: The city may issue, without charge, a permit to hold a garage or yard sale on a specific lot 

within the city, good for two consecutive days.  Permits shall be issued not more frequently than once each 

calendar quarter per lot. 

(b) Temporary construction building: Temporary buildings used in construction work only, may be permitted 

in any district and shall be removed immediately upon completion of construction. 

(c) Model homes and sales office: Residential buildings in new subdivisions of record, containing fifty (50) or 

more lots may be temporarily used as model homes and sales offices provided such use conforms to the 

following:  

(1) A subdivision plat must be filed for record prior to issuance of a permit. 

(2) Facilities for sewage disposal must be approved and available. 

(3) Not more than 50 percent of gross floor area may be used for sales office. 

(4) Only sales activity relating to the subdivision is permitted and no other business activity may be 

conducted on the premises. 

(5) A permit shall expire upon completion of the sale of the last lot in subdivision or three calendar years 

from date of the permit, whichever is earlier.  However, the license may be extended for good cause.  

License is not assignable except on approval of city. 

(6) Paved parking shall be provided for offices.  Landscaping shall be installed in such a manner that 

vehicles utilizing parking lot shall be screened from view from the right-of-way.  Upon expiration of 

the model home/office use, paving shall be removed by permittee and replaced with grass and 

landscaping. 

(7) The use is limited to the structure initially permitted and is not transferable to any other structure or 

lot within the subdivision. 

(8) Only one sign shall be allowed upon the premises, not exceeding six square feet in area.  The sign 

shall not be illuminated. 

 



Article III  Section C 
 

Zoning Districts  Dimension Standards 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 21  

C. Dimension Standards 

 
1. Lots and Principal Structure 

 

 Table 3-2 indicates general dimension standards for lots and principle structures in all zoning districts.  Unless 

otherwise specified in Section D. – Special Conditions for Uses, or Article V. – Special Districts, all lots and 

principle structures shall meet these standards.   

 

Table 3-2: Dimension Table - Lots and Principle Structure 

Dimension 

District or 

use 

Min. Lot Area/ 

Allowed Units Per 

Acre (UPA) 

Min. 

Lot Width 

Setbacks Max. total lot 

coverage by all 

structures 

Max. 

height Front Rear Side Street 

side 

  R/A 3 acres/ -  198’ 75’ 75’ 25’  50’ none 30’ 

  R-1 15,000 s.f./ -  100’ 40’ 35’ 10’ b 20’ 40% 30’  a 

  R-1a 40,000 s.f./ -  120’ 30’ 30’ 10’ b 20’ 25% 35’ 

  R-1b 30,000 s.f./ -  100’ 30’ 30’ 10’ b 20’ 25% 35’ 

  R-1c 20,000 s.f./ -  80’ 30’ 30’ 10’ b 20’ 25% 35’ 

  R-2 10,500 s.f./ -  75’ 35’ 35’ 10’ b 20’ 37% 30’  a 

  R-3  7,800 s.f./ -  65’ 30’ 35’ 8’ b 20’ 35% 30’ 

  R-3 PGH 4,000 s.f./ -   40’ 20’ 15’ 10’ b 10’ 32.5% 30’ 

  R-3 TH 2,400 s.f. j/ -   24’ 20’ 35’ 0’ c 20’ 45% 30’ 

  R-4 10,500 s.f. for two 

dwelling units plus 

6,500 s.f. for each 

additional unit/ 7 UPA 

75’ for two 

dwelling units 

plus 5’ for each 

additional unit 

30’ 35’ 10’ b 20’ 30% 30’ 

  R-5 10,500 s.f. for two 

dwelling units plus 

4,100 s.f. for each 

additional unit/ 10 

UPA 

75’ for two 

dwelling units 

plus 5’ for each 

additional unit 

30’ 35’ 10’ b 20’ 30% 30’ 

  R-6 2 acres with a max. of 

5 acres i/ -  

250’ 25’ 20’ 20’ b 25’ N/A 30’ 

  B-1 None/ -  none 20’ d 20’ none e   30’  l 

  B-2 None/ -  none 20’ d none f none e   30’  k l 

  B-3a 7,500 s.f./ -  60’ 30’ 35’ 10’  30% 30’  l 

  B-3b 7,500 s.f./ -  60’ 20’ 20’ none e  none 30’  l 

  B-4 None/ -  none 20’ 20’ 10’   30’  l 

  M-1 None/ -  none none g none f none e  none 45’ 

  M-2 None/ -  none none g none h none h  none 45’ 

  PUD See Article V., Section A. 

  VRM See Article VI., Section A. 

  NVC See Article VI., Section B. 

  CVC See Article VI., Section C. 

  HTD See Article V., Section I. 
 

a.  Structure may exceed the building height provided the lot width is increased by 10 feet for each additional foot in height. 

b.  Where a driveway is in the side, and extends past the front of the principle structure, the side setback shall be 15’.  Driveways shall not be 

within 3 feet of the side lot line.  The area between the side lot line and driveway shall be vegetated and remain pervious. 

c.  End units shall have a minimum side yard of 10’. 
d.  Where a lot abuts residential property on both sides, the front setback shall be in line with adjacent structures. 

e.  Where a lot abuts residential property, the side setback shall be 10’. 

f.   Where a lot abuts residential property to the rear, the rear setback shall be 20’ 
g.  In the case of existing adjacent establishments, the setback shall be the average within 100 feet on either side of the proposed structure. 

h.  Where a side or rear lot abuts residential districts, the setbacks shall be determined on an individual basis. 

i.   R-6 Districts may be larger than 5 acres provided they meet all the special design requirements of Article V., Section D.5.  
j.   Individual lots in the R-3 TH district may be as small as 2,400 square feet, however each unit must have a minimum of 3,600 square feet made 

up of lot area and common or public open space according to the standards in Article III, Section D.2. 

k.  Central Business District 40’. 
l.  A building located in any commercial zone may have a height of 35’ if it contains both residential and commercial space.  The residential use 

must make up at least 33% of the total area of the building and be located on the second and/or third floor and retail or office space must be 

located on ground and/or second floor. (See Site Plan Review Article II, Section C, Sub-section 2 – Site Plan, for approval procedures) 



Article III  Section C 
 

Zoning Districts  Dimension Standards 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 22  

2. Residential Accessory Structures 

 

Table 3-3 indicates dimension requirements for residential accessory structures. 

 

Table 3-3: Dimension Table - Residential Accessory Structures 

Dimension 

 

 

District or 

use 

Setbacks Max. total 

lot coverage 

by accessory 

structure 

Max. 

height 

Min. 

structure 

separation 

from principle 

structure  

Min. 

separation 

between 

structures 

Front Rear Side Street 

side 

R/A Behind front 

building line 

of principle 
structure 

15’ 15’ 50’ 30% of 

required rear 

yard  

30’ 50’ for 

agriculture 

structures; 
10 feet for all 

other accessory 

structures 

5’ 

R-3 PGH* Behind rear 

building line 

of principle 
structure 

none 

required 

same as 

principle 

structure 

same as 

principle 

structure 

25% of 

required rear 

yard* 

20’ but no 

taller than 

the 
principle 

structure 

5’ 5’ 

All other 

residential 

districts 

Behind rear 
building line 

of principle 

structure 

5’ 5’ no nearer 
than 

principle 

structure 

25% of 
required rear 

yard 

30’ but no 
taller than 

the 

principle 
structure 

10’ 5’ 

*one detached garage up to 600 square feet shall be allowed for Patio/garden homes in addition to the maximum total lot coverage for other 

accessory structures, subject to all other accessory structure dimension standards. 

 

3. Yards 

 

 No part of a yard or other open space required for any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions 

of this ordinance shall be included as part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another building.  

Every part of a required yard or court shall be open to the sky, except for permitted accessory structures and the 

ordinary projection of sills, cornices, buttresses, ornamental features, chimneys, flues, and eaves, provided the 

projections shall not extend more than two feet beyond the yard area requirements. 

 
4. Free-standing Commercial Structures 

 

a. Any freestanding single use or tenant retail building in the Greeno Road Village Center as contemplated in 

the Comprehensive Plan shall not have a building footprint larger than 18,000 square feet. 

b. Any free standing single use or tenant retail building in any other business zoning district shall not have a 

building footprint larger than 8,000 square feet. 

 

5. Waterfront Lots 

 

a.    Accessory structures may be located in front or side of principle structures on waterfront lots but may not 

be located within the required front or side yards. Accessory structures shall maintain minimum structure 

separation of 10’ from the principle structure and 5’ separation from all other accessory structures.  

b.    Accessory structures located in the required rear yard of waterfront lots shall follow the dimension 

requirements in Table 3-3. 

c. Structures built over submerged state lands are exempted from the front and side yard setback requirements 

for accessory structures on waterfront lots. 

 

 

D. Special Conditions for Uses 
 

The following special conditions shall apply to all districts where the uses are permitted or permitted by special 

exception.  These special conditions are in addition to the generally applicable standards that apply to all uses 



Article III  Section D 
 

Zoning Districts  Special Conditions for Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 23  

within a particular zoning district.   In the case of a conflict between the generally applicable standard for the 

zoning district and the specific standard for the use listed in this section, the more specific standards in this 

section shall apply. 

 

1.  Recreational Vehicle Parks 

 

a. Intent:  The intent of the special conditions for Recreational Vehicle Parks is to: 

• Provide opportunities for temporary travel and lodging facilities for tourists with recreational vehicles; 

• Allow parks that are accessible to the community and attractions in Fairhope; and 

• Ensure location and design standards compatible with community goals and surrounding property.  

 

b. Location Restrictions:  All recreational vehicle parks shall have direct access to a County, State or Federal 

Highway. 

 

c. Site Requirements: 

(1)   All recreational vehicle parks shall have a minimum lot width of not less than 50 feet for the portion 

used for entrance and exit.  No entrance or exit shall be through a residential district. 

(2) The minimum lot area per park shall be three acres. 

(3) Use of space in recreational vehicle parks shall be limited to travel trailers, mobile homes, motor 

homes and campers with a maximum length, exclusive of hitch, of 28 feet. 

(4) Spaces shall be rented by the day or week only and an occupant of a space shall remain in the same 

trailer park for a period of not more than 90 days. 

(5) Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers, laundry facilities and other uses and 

structures customarily incidental to operation of a trailer park are permitted as accessory uses in any 

district in which trailer parks are allowed provided: 

(a) The establishment and the parking area primarily related to their operation shall not occupy more 

than ten percent (10 %) of the area of the park. 

(b) The establishment shall be restricted to use by occupants of the park. 

(c) The establishment shall present no visible evidence of commercial character, which would attract 

customers other than occupants of the park. 

(d) No part of any space intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes shall be within 30 feet of the 

right-of-way. 

(6) The recreational vehicle park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval of the county 

health department. 

 

2.  Townhouses 

 

a. Intent: The intent of the special conditions for Townhouses is to: 

• Provide a residential format as an alternative to single-family homes; 

• Allow townhouses to be appropriately intermingled with other types of housing and give residents of 

townhouses quality residential neighborhoods; 

• Ensure location and design standards compatible with surrounding property; 

• Prevent long, unbroken lines of row housing;  

• Make efficient, economical, comfortable, and convenient 

use of land and open space; 

• Serve the public purposes of zoning by means alternative 

to conventional arrangements of yards and building areas. 

 

b. Site Requirements:  

(1)  Not more than four contiguous townhouse units shall be 

built in a row with the same front line, and not more than 

eight townhouses shall be contiguous.  In groups of 

townhouses consisting of more than four units; the 

required difference in front alignment shall be four feet. 

See Figure 3-1. 

(2) Townhouses shall have a minimum lot area of 3,600 

Figure 3-1.  Townhouse units of more than 4 

shall have a differentiated front building line of 

at least 4 feet and no single building shall have 

more than 8 units. 



Article III  Section D 
 

Zoning Districts  Special Conditions for Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 24  

square feet for each unit.  This area may be on the same platted lot as the unit, may come from 

common open space, or can come from existing public open space or public open space proposed to be 

dedicated with the plan, which is within 660 feet of the unit.  No more than one unit may claim the 

same public or common open space area towards meeting the requirement of 3,600 square feet for each 

unit.  

(3)  Each townhouse shall have on its own lot one rear yard containing not less than 400 square feet, 

reasonably secluded from view from right-of-ways or from neighboring property.  In condominium 

townhouse or townhouse complex developments not subdivided into lots, one yard containing not less 

than 400 square feet, reasonably secluded from view from right-of-ways or from neighboring property, 

shall be provided contiguous to and for the private use of the occupants of each dwelling unit.  See 

Figure 3-2. 

(4) All vehicle access to townhouse units shall be 

rear-loaded by alleys or an internal drive aisle 

accessing the parking area or garages from the 

rear of the unit.  Insofar as practicable, exterior 

off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in 

bays at the interior of blocks.  No off-street 

parking space shall be more than 100 feet by 

the most direct pedestrian route from a door of 

the dwelling unit it is intended to serve.   

(5) In townhouse developments with a total area 

greater than five acres at least 20% of the total 

area shall be devoted to public or common open 

space, exclusive of parking areas or accessory 

buildings. Common open areas may include 

recreational facilities.  Provisions shall be made to 

assure that common open areas for the use and enjoyment of occupants of townhouses are maintained 

in a satisfactory manner without expense to the general taxpayer.  In addition, the developer of a 

townhouse development or homeowners association created by the developer by recorded covenants 

and restrictions, shall preserve for the owners and occupants of the development lands set aside for 

open areas, parks, or recreational use, and the common off-street parking spaces established for the 

development. 

 

3.  Patio and Garden Homes 

 

a. Intent: The intent of the special conditions for Patio homes is to: 

• Provide a residential format as an alternative to single-family homes; 

• Allow patio homes to be appropriately intermingled with other types of housing and give residents of 

patio homes quality residential neighborhoods; 

• Ensure location and design standards compatible with surrounding property; 

• Create a low-maintenance residential alternative;  

• Make efficient, economical, comfortable, and convenient use of land and open space; 

• Serve the public purposes of zoning by means alternative to conventional arrangements of yards and 

building areas. 

 

b. Location Restrictions:  Patio Homes and Garden Homes are only allowed in districts zoned PUD.  The 

special conditions in this section shall also apply to patio homes and garden homes existing as an allowed 

use in the R-3 PGH district prior to July 10, 2000.  

 

c. Site Requirements: 

(1) Not more than two patio homes shall be connected. 

(2)  Each individual patio home unit shall be constructed on its own lot. 

(3)  Each lot shall be a minimum width of 40 feet at the front building line, and a minimum lot size of 

4,000 square feet. 

(4)  Each patio home shall have one side yard with a minimum of 10 feet.  Minimum depth for rear yard 

shall be 15 feet.  Fireplace and chimney may be placed in the side or rear yard setback provided they 

Figure 3-2.  All townhouse units shall have private 

yard areas of at least 400 square feet. 



Article III  Section D 
 

Zoning Districts  Special Conditions for Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 25  

do not project beyond 24 inches beyond the wall, and, provided they do not restrict or obstruct any 

drainage or drainage easement, either existing or proposed. The required 10 foot side yard must be kept 

perpetually free of permanent obstructions, accessory structures, walls and fences without gates.  

(5)  Privacy fences or walls may be placed on or along any lot lines provided that the fences or walls are 

not constructed in a manner to block any local lot drainage and provided gates or other openings are 

provided that will not restrict access for fire protections.  An eight-foot maximum height limit will be 

permitted for privacy fences or walls located on or along any required side or rear yard. 

(6)  Each patio home shall have on its own lot, one yard containing not less than 600 square feet, 

reasonably secluded from view of right-of-ways or neighboring property. 

(7)  Maximum lot coverage permitted for the main dwelling shall be 60% of the permitted building area not 

including coverage permitted for accessory buildings or structures.  

(8)  Off-street parking shall be located within the interior of the lot.  A common parking area serving no 

more than six patio homes may be centrally located, provided it is not more than 100 feet from any 

dwelling unit it serves and is screened from public right-of-ways and adjacent property. 

(9)  The exterior walls of the patio home, or any accessory structures located on the zero-foot side yard 

setback shall not project over the property lines.  Roof overhang may penetrate maintenance and 

drainage easement of the adjacent lot a maximum of 30 inches, provided the roof shall be so designed 

that water run off shall be restricted to the drainage easement area. 

(a)  Where adjacent zero lot line dwellings are not constructed against or along a common lot line, a 

perpetual drainage easement shall be provided which shall be approved by the city engineering 

department.  Fences and walls may be located on or along this easement provided gates or other 

openings that will not block local lot drainage are maintained. 

(b)  The lot adjacent to the zero setback side yard must be under the same ownership at the time of 

initial construction (ensuring that a developer does not infringe on the property rights of owners of 

adjacent tracts). 

(c)  A 15-foot side setback shall be required, provided the adjacent property is not zoned for patio 

homes or is not a permitted use in the adjacent zoning district. 

 

4.  Automobile Service Stations and Convenience Stores 

 

a. Intent:  The intent of the special conditions for Automobile Service Stations and Convenience Stores is to: 

• Provide access to necessary services offered by automobile service stations and convenience stores 

from all areas of the city; 

• Allow service stations and convenience stores to be appropriately mingled with other non-residential 

uses; 

• Ensure location and design standards compatible with surrounding property, particularly the scale and 

intensity of surrounding commercial uses; 

• Minimize the potential negative impact that automobile service stations and convenience stores may 

have on surrounding property and neighborhoods; 

• Recognize that the design and scale of automobile service stations and convenience stores can 

determine how well this use fits in with surrounding uses. 

 

b. Location Restrictions: 

(1) In the NVC district or CVC district, automobile service stations 

may be located anywhere subject to the special design 

requirements listed in Section D.4.d of this Article 

(2) In all other districts, the property on which an automobile 

service station or convenience store is located shall not be 

within 100 feet of any residential district, or any property 

containing a school, public playground, church, hospital, public 

library, institution for children or dependents. 

 

c. Site Requirements: 

(1) An automobile service station or convenience store shall 

have a minimum front lot line on the primary right-of-way 

Figure 3-3.  All light sources shall be 

shielded.  Protruding bulbs and lenses 

are prohibited. 



Article III  Section D 
 

Zoning Districts  Special Conditions for Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 26  

of 120 feet and a minimum area of 12,000 square feet.   

(2) All buildings shall be set back 40 feet from all right-of-way 

lines and all canopies shall be set back 15 feet from all right-of-

way lines. 

(3)  A raised curb of at least six inches in height shall be erected 

along the right-of-way lines, except for driveway openings. 

(4)  A solid fence or wall not less than six feet nor more than eight 

feet in height shall be erected along all adjacent property lines 

facing any adjacent residential lot. 

(5) Light or glare shall not spill onto adjacent property or right-of-

ways.  All light fixtures shall be either recessed into a canopy, 

or if they protrude shall have a box that shields the bulb from 

direct view.  A light fixture that protrudes from the bottom of a 

canopy shall have a box completely surrounding the bulb and 

the lens shall be flush with the box.  Lenses shall not protrude 

past the bottom of the box.  Should a gas station canopy be 

repaired or improved and the value of the improvements or the 

repair total 50% or more of the assessed value of the structure, 

these lighting requirements must be met.  This 50% value is a 

cumulative total.  See Figure 3-3. 

(6)  All driving, parking storage, and service areas shall be paved 

and curbed. 

(7)  No automobile service station or convenience store shall be 

extended in area unless the proposed extension is in 

conformity with the requirements. 

(8) All gasoline pump islands shall be set back at least 15 feet from right-of-way line, or where a future 

widening line has been established, the setback line shall be measured from such line, and where pump 

islands are constructed perpendicular to the right-of-way.  However, the pumps shall be at least 60 feet 

from the centerline of an arterial street, 55 feet from the centerline of a collector street and 45 feet from 

the centerline of other streets. 

(9) Vehicular entrances or exits shall be provided according to Article V. of the Subdivision Regulations. 

 

d. Special Design Requirements - NVC and CVC Districts:  In 

addition to the above site requirements, the following special 

design requirements shall apply to automobile service stations 

or convenience stores located in the NVC or CVC.   

(1) All buildings shall be set back no more 10 feet from all 

right-of-way lines.  Any area between the building and the 

right-of-way shall only be used for landscape elements. See 

Figure 3-4. 

(2)  All buildings shall have a primary entrance facing the 

street, directly connected to the public sidewalk. 

(3) At least 60% of all street-frontages on the lot shall be 

occupied by the building. On corner lots, the street 

frontage on the secondary street may be occupied by 

the building on as little as 50% of that frontage, 

provided that the 60% requirement is met when both 

frontages are combined.  See Figure 3-5. 

(4) All buildings shall have at least 50% clear glazing on of 

any street facing ground level.  Glazing on windows and doors shall count towards this requirement.  

See Figure 3-6. 

(5) Pump islands shall be located behind or to the side of the building. 

(6)  No more than two pump islands with a maximum of four pumping stations per island shall be located 

on the site. 

(7) No more than two service bays shall be located on the site.  Service bays shall not face the primary 

street frontage of the building. 

Figure 3-4.  Maximum 10-foot 

setback in the NVC or CVC 

Districts. 

Figure 3-5.  Street frontages shall be occupied 

by building facades for at least 60% of the lot 

width on the buildings primary street. Corner 

buildings may reduce this to as much as 50% 

on the buildings secondary street provided the 

cumulative total for both streets exceed 60%. 



Article III  Section D 
 

Zoning Districts  Special Conditions for Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 27  

(8)  All driving, parking storage, and service areas shall be 

paved and curbed. 

(9) All gasoline pump islands shall be set back at least 15 

feet from right-of-way line, or where a future 

widening line has been established, the setback line 

shall be measured from such line, and where pump 

islands are constructed perpendicular to the right-of-

way.  However, the pumps shall be at least 60 feet 

from the centerline of an arterial street, 55 feet from 

the centerline of a collector street and 45 feet from the 

centerline of other streets. 

(10) Vehicle entrance and exits shall be subject to the 

specifications in the Subdivision Regulations. 

(11) No outdoor storage of any kind is permitted on the site. 

(12) All vehicles shall be stored in an enclosed area and all 

vehicle repairs shall occur in an enclosed area. 

(13) All automobile service stations are subject to special site enhanced screening conditions to 

appropriately screen adjacent property from parking, pump islands, or service bays.  This site 

screening shall be specific to the context of the site and may involve landscape, walls, or other 

elements in accordance with the tree and landscape ordinance.   

 

5.  Home Occupations 

 

a. Intent:  The intent of the special conditions of Home Occupations is to: 

• Provide opportunities for residents to earn income and operate businesses from their home; 

• Allow businesses that do not adversely impact the residential character of neighborhoods; and 

• Ensure that the ongoing operations of home occupations are not visible or detrimental to adjacent 

residents and property owners. 

 

b. Location Restrictions: 

(1) Home occupations are permitted in all districts where residences are permitted, if licensed by the 

City’s revenue officer and conforming to the special conditions of this section and any applicable laws 

or ordinances.  

(2) Any operation, which, whether by requirement of any law or regulation or for any other reason, 

requires a full and complete separation from the living area of the main building, shall not be construed 

as a home occupation within the meaning of the ordinance. 

 

c. Site Requirements: 

(1)  The home occupation shall be an accessory use, incidental to the primary use of the premises for 

residential purposes. 

(2) The home occupation shall be operated only by members of the family residing on the premises.  No 

non-family employees shall be employed on the premises.  No article or service shall be sold or offered 

for sale except as may be produced by members of the family residing on the premises and no 

merchandise shall be delivered to customers at the premises. 

(3)  No home occupation shall alter the appearance of the home or neighborhood either through structural 

changes or through ongoing activities and operations.  The building shall be an existing structure ready 

for occupancy and not a proposed structure.  No building altered in any fashion inconsistent with the 

residential appearance for the purpose of accommodating or expanding any home occupation, existing 

or proposed. 

 (4)  Parking for not more than two vehicles in conjunction with home occupation may be provided in the 

existing driveway area.  No expansion of parking to serve the home occupation shall be permitted and 

in no case shall public property be utilized for parking.  Uses that require additional parking per the 

parking schedule shall not be eligible as a home occupation. 

(5)  The home occupation shall not generate excessive traffic or produce obnoxious odors, glare, noise 

vibration, electrical disturbance, radioactivity, electromagnetic interference or any other condition 

detrimental to the character of the surrounding area. 

Figure 3-6.  Ground level, street-facing 

facades shall have at least 50% clear 

glazing. 



Article III  Section D 
 

Zoning Districts  Special Conditions for Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 28  

(6)  Business signs shall not be permitted for home occupations located within residential districts.  In other 

use districts, signs shall not exceed two square feet in sign area, attached to the face of the building, 

limited to one sign only.  

(7) For purposes of home occupations, the written statements of the majority of owners of property within 

300 feet in opposition to the home occupation shall be sufficient cause to determine that the use is of a 

character detrimental to the surrounding area. 

 

d. License 

(1)   No license, new or renewal, shall be issued until an application shall have been completed by 

applicant, premises inspected and application endorsed with approval of the Director of Planning and 

Building.   

(2) The applicant for a home occupation license shall either own the property or, if a tenant, have the 

owner’s written permission to engage in the proposed home occupation. 

(3) The license shall be kept on file at the premises where the home occupation is located and shall be 

subject to examination by the revenue officer or Director of Planning and Building upon request, and 

shall be surrendered to the city upon written citation for violations of any condition or ordinance 

requirement. 

(4) Home occupation licenses shall expire on the 31st day of December of each calendar year and are 

delinquent February 1st.  

 

6.  Cemeteries 

 

a. Intent:  The intent of the special conditions for cemeteries is to: 

• Provide public access to cemeteries within the City; 

• Allow cemeteries to establish a park-like, civic setting to mourn, honor, and commemorate the 

deceased; and 

• Ensure location and site conditions that are compatible to surrounding property and neighborhoods. 

 

b. Location Restrictions: 

(1) The site proposed for a cemetery shall not interfere with the development of a system of collector or 

larger streets in the vicinity of the site.  In addition, the site shall have direct access to an arterial street. 

(2) Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing not less than twenty (20) acres. 

 

c. Site Requirements: 

(1)  All structures shall be set back no less than 25 feet from any property line or minor street right-of-way. 

(2)  All graves or burial lots shall be set back not less than 25 feet from any property line on local street 

right-of-way lines, and not less than 50 feet from any collector or arterial street right-of-way. 

(3)  The entire cemetery property shall be landscaped and maintained. 

(4)  The expansion of any existing cemetery shall only be allowed according to the Special Exception 

procedures in Article II. 

 

7.  Storage and Parking of Trailers and Commercial Vehicles 

 

a. Intent: The intent for the special conditions for Storage and Parking of commercial Vehicles is to: 

• Provide opportunities for residents to own, utilize, and store commercial vehicles, trailers, and 

recreational vehicles; and 

• Ensure that parking and temporary storage of commercial vehicles, trailers, and recreational vehicles is 

not detrimental to the neighborhood character and adjacent residents or property owners. 

 

b. Location Requirements: Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, boat, camping and 

hauling, shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in any residential district 

except in accordance with the requirements in this section. 

 

c. Site Requirements: 

(1)  No more than one commercial vehicle per dwelling shall be permitted.   In no case shall a commercial 

vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline or liquefied petroleum products be permitted. 



Article III  Section D 
 

Zoning Districts  Special Conditions for Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 29  

(2)  No travel trailer, hauling trailer, utility trailer, boat, boat trailer, motor home or commercial vehicle 

shall be parked or stored in the front yard, or on corner lots, in a side yard abutting a public right-of-

way or upon the right-of-way.  The length of said vehicle shall not exceed twenty-eight feet (28’). 

(3) These vehicles shall be allowed in a side yard only if the rear yard cannot be reasonably accessed.  

Topographical features, the existence of mature trees or the existence of properly permitted and 

constructed structures, which prevent rear yard parking, is sufficient to establish a lack of rear yard 

access.  If parked in the rear yard, a hard surface pad with access shall be provided by either a hard 

surface drive, hard surface drive strips or an access drive constructed of turf block materials.  All 

vehicles covered by this section shall have a minimum side and rear setback of six feet (6’).  No 

vehicle covered in this section shall be located in a side yard containing a driveway.    

(4)  A travel trailer shall not be occupied either temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in 

any area except in a recreational vehicle park authorized under this ordinance. 

(5)  A junked vehicle, or one that is not operational shall not be permitted to be located on or near lots with 

dwelling units.  These junked autos shall be confined to junkyards. 

 

8.  Personal Storage  

 

a. Intent:  The intent of the special conditions for Personal Storage is to: 

• Allow for personal storage services to be mixed with other compatible commercial uses; 

• Ensure that personal storage facilities are located appropriately in order to minimize the impact on 

adjacent property; and 

• Recognize that the design and scale of personal storage facilities can determine how well this use fits 

in with surrounding uses. 

 

b. Location Requirements:   

(1) Exterior personal storage facilities on more than two acres shall be located only in the M-1 and M-2 

districts and only by special exception. 

(2) Exterior personal storage facilities on less than two acres and indoor personal storage facilities may be 

located in the B-2 district and only by special exception. 

 

c. Site Requirements: 

(1)   All one-way drive aisles shall provide for one 10-foot wide travel lane.  Traffic direction and parking 

shall be designated by signs or painting. 

(2)  All two-way drive aisles shall provide for one 10-foot wide parking lane and two 12-foot wide travel 

lanes. 

(3)  Two parking spaces, to be located at the project office for use of clients, shall be provided for the 

manager’s quarters plus one additional space for every 25 storage cubicles. 

(4) Any other site requirements determined through the special exception procedure to minimize impacts 

on adjacent property. 

 

9.  Accessory Dwelling Units 

 

a. Intent:  The intent of the special conditions for accessory dwelling units is to allow flexibility in living 

arrangements and home occupations while maintaining the residential character of existing neighborhoods.  

These standards apply to all districts except for the Village Districts in Article VI.  

 

b. Location Restrictions: Accessory dwelling units shall be located on the same lot as the principal structure 

and are subject to the dimension standards in Section C.2. of this Article. 

 

c. Site Requirements: 

(1)  Any accessory structures shall only have a half bath. 

(2) Kitchens and electrical wiring or gas-supporting kitchens are prohibited. 

(3) Any accessory structure proposed for office or extra living areas shall not be larger than 50% of the 

gross square footage of the principal structure. 

(4) Any utilities for an accessory structure shall run through the principal structure. 

 



Article III  Section D 
 

Zoning Districts  Special Conditions for Uses 

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 30  

d.  Exception:  Notwithstanding anything contained in this subsection 9 to the contrary any “bona-fide” mother-

in-law suite with a kitchen, attached to the principle structure, under common roof, shall not be 

deemed to be an accessory dwelling unit for purpose of this zoning ordinance but, instead, shall be 

deemed to be a part of the principle dwelling unit.   

 
10. Building Materials on Commercially Zoned Property 

 

a. Intent: The intent of the special conditions on building material for commercially zoned property is to 

prevent negative visual impact, provide attractiveness and beautification, and protect commercial property 

values. 

 

b. Location restrictions:  The special conditions in this section shall apply to any commercially zoned 

property in the City of Fairhope. 

 

c. No building or portion of a building visible from a public street or right-of-way shall be exposed metal.  A 

façade of some type or material shall be used to visually screen the metal from the public street or right-of-

way.  

 

11. Restaurants and Accessory Bars in the M-1 Light Industrial District 

  

a. Intent:  The intent of these special conditions for restaurants and associated bars in the M-1 Light 

Industrial District is to provide a method for restaurants to be permitted in the M-1 district. 

  

b. Location Requirements:  The special conditions in this section shall apply only to the M-1 Light Industrial 

District. 

 

c. Site Requirements:   

(1) Prohibition of drive throughs.  Restaurants shall not contain drive through windows or pick up 

windows.  Restaurant must be a sit-down style restaurant. 

 



Article IV  Section A 
 

Site Design Standards  Open Space 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 31 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article IV 

 

Site Design Standards 
 

 

A. Open Space 

B. Screening, Lighting and Landscape Material 

C. Streetscape 

D. Site Access and Internal Circulation 

E. Parking 

F. Stormwater Management 

G. Tree Preservation 

 

 

 

 

This Article provides site design standards for seven key elements that are part of most development sites: open 

space; screening, lighting, and landscape material; streetscape; site access and internal circulation; parking; 

stormwater management; and signs.  The standards are intended to contribute to the ability of development sites to 

integrate into the City’s overall plan.  The standards and guidelines in this article should be applied in every zoning 

district and to every site design to the extent that the component is required by any development regulation or is 

otherwise proposed as part of the site plan or development.  These design standards should be applied in addition to 

any specific area or design standards contained in other sections for a particular zoning district. 

 

A. Open Space 
 

1. Intent  

 

The open space design standards are intended to provide design solutions that ensure each area of open space 

serves a specific function and is not merely left over or under-utilized space.  The design standards are also 

intended to provide greater access to a wider variety of open spaces.  These design standards are to be applied to 

any area used to meet specific area requirements of the zoning districts and subdivision regulations for open 

space or greenspace. 

 

2. Types of Open Space  

 

The following Table 4-1 indicates the categories, types, and general sizes of open space that can be used to meet 

the City requirements for open space and greenspace.  Generally there are two categories – Natural and Civic.  

Natural open space is most appropriate in neighborhoods, rural areas, or at the edges of village developments.  

It can also be used at any location where significant natural features warrant preservation.  Civic open space is 

most appropriate in convenient locations, easily accessible by a large number of people.  Typically this will be 

at the center of a residential neighborhood or in a village or commercial center. 



Article IV  Section A 
 

Site Design Standards  Open Space 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 32 

  

Table 4-1: Open Space Categories and Types 

 

 

Category 

 

Type 

 

Description 

Size 

Recommendation 

 

Image 

N
A

T
U

R
A

L
 O

P
E

N
 S

P
A

C
E

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preserve 

 
An undeveloped area that contains 

significant natural features or 
habitat worthy of preservation.  

Features such as large stands of 

trees, water elements, or 
prominent topography 

characterize preserves.  A 

preserve may by use for passive 
recreation or as a scenic and 

visual buffer.  It generally 

contains little or no constructed 
improvements although trails may 

access the preserve. 

 

 

 
The size of a  Preserve 

open space should be 

based on the site 
characteristics and 

potential continuity of 

natural features in the 
area along with the 

potential to connect to 

adjacent natural areas. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Trail / 

Greenway 

 
An undeveloped area of 
continuous linear natural features, 

often following a stream or 

floodplain.  A trail or greenway 
should be usable for recreation 

and non-motorized transportation.  

It includes few constructed 
improvements except for those to 

enhance travel or recreational use. 

 
Generally should 
include at least 3 acres 

but should be sized and 

located based on 
providing significant 

continuity throughout a 

development and to 
areas beyond the 

development area.  Must 

be at least 30’ wide at 
all locations. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Park 

 

An undeveloped natural area for 

unstructured recreation.  A park 

may include some areas for 

structured recreation, such as ball 

fields, but generally this area 
should occupy no more than 25% 

of the total area. Parks are located 

based on the presence of natural 
features or based on convenience 

for surrounding residents. A park 

has a predominantly natural 
landscape although portions may 

be designed for aesthetic and 

recreation purposes, particularly 
for parks located due to 

convenience. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
At least 3 acres 

 

 

 



Article IV  Section A 
 

Site Design Standards  Open Space 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 33 

  

Table 4-1: Open Space Categories and Types (continued) 

 

 

Category 

 

Type 

 

Description 

Size 

Recommendation 

 

Image 

C
IV

IC
 O

P
E

N
 S

P
A

C
E

 

 

 

 

 

 

Green 

 

 

An open space for unstructured 
recreation or aesthetic 

landscaping.  A green is bordered 

by public right-of-ways on at least 
2 sides, front building facades, 

and formal landscaped elements 

to define its boundaries.  
Generally there are few 

constructed elements except as a 

formal entry to or a focal point for 
the green. 

 

 

 
 

 

 

¼ to 3 acres 

 
 

 

 

 

Plaza 

 

 
An open space for civic purposes 

and commercial activities.  A 

plaza is bordered by public right-
of-ways on at least 2 sides, and 

building facades to define its 
boundaries.  It is largely 

constructed of materials to 

withstand heavy pedestrian traffic, 
but contains intermittent lawns, 

landscape beds, or trees in a 

formal pattern. 

 

 
1/8 to 2 acres 

 

The size of plazas is 
generally determined by 

the height of 
surrounding buildings, 

maintaining between a 

1:3 and 1:6 ratio of 
building height to plaza. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Courtyard 

 

A small open space accessible to 

the public but generally serving 

one or a few surrounding 

buildings.  Courtyards are 
primarily bordered by building 

facades, but have at least one side 

fully or partially boarded by a 
public right-of-way.  Courtyards 

are often constructed of materials 

to withstand heavy pedestrian 
traffic, but contain intermittent 

formal landscape elements. 

 

 

1000 square feet to 1/8 

acre 

 

The size of courtyards is 
generally determined by 

the height of 

surrounding buildings, 
maintaining a between a 

2:1 and 1:3  ratio of 

building height to 
courtyard. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Playground 

 
Open space designed and 

equipped for structured recreation.  

Playgrounds are often boarded by 
a fence or other private boundary 

(as in the case of a playground 

internal to a block) but are 
accessible by common pedestrian 

path.   Alternatively, playgrounds 

included as part of a larger civic 
or natural open space do not 

necessarily have borders.  

 
 

 

1000 square feet to ¼ 

acres.   

 

A playground may be 

part of larger civic or 
natural open space. 

 

 



Article IV  Section B 
 

Site Design Standards  Screening, Lighting, and Landscape Material 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 34 

  

 

B. Screening, Lighting and Landscape Material 
 

1. Intent   

 

The screening, lighting, and landscape material sections are intended to create a quality community 

image, minimize the impact of development on adjacent sites, allow property owners to create 

comfortable and appropriate private environments, and integrate all development into the overall 

community plan.  

 

2. Screening  

 

a.   In any district, all mechanical or operating equipment, materials, or activities not contained within 

a building, such as drive-through equipment, outdoor storage of materials, stationary machinery, 

and outdoor servicing activities, shall be enclosed by a wall or fence of solid appearance or tight 

evergreen hedge not less than six feet in height.  If the owner elects to build a wall or fence of bare 

or severe appearance it shall be enhanced with the planting of shrubs. 

 

b.    In any district where a commercial/industrial use abuts a residential use, screening/buffering shall 

be required.  Acceptable screening/buffering shall include a wall or fence of solid appearance, or 

tight evergreen hedge not less than six feet (6’) in height and a twenty foot (20’) landscaped buffer 

containing at least one (1) overstory tree and five (5) shrubs per every twenty-five linear feet (25’).    

 

3.   Parking Lot/Open Area Lighting  

  

Parking lots with 50 or fewer spaces and open area requiring lighting for general purposes shall have 

light poles that do not exceed 10 feet overall height.  Parking lots having more than 50 spaces shall 

have light poles that do not exceed 20 feet overall height.  Luminaries of a sharp cut off design to 

shield light source above 72 degrees from vertical and providing 1.0 average maintained foot-candles 

with the following uniformity ratios: 3:1 average/minimum * (.33 FC minimum), 12:1 

maximum/minimum * (4.0 FC maximum) are required in all cases.  Public facilities such as lighted 

ball fields are excluded.  A photometric grid shall be furnished by developer at time of building permit 

application. 

   

  * maximum or minimum foot-candle level at any point lighted area. 

 

4. Landscape Materials  

 

All un-built yards and open space required by this ordinance, and all natural screening material, shall 

be planted according to the specifications of the City landscape ordinance.  

 

5. Fencing and/or Walls 

 

a. Fences and/or walls are permitted in every zoning district. A building permit shall be obtained 

prior to construction of any fence.  Fences and/or walls may be permitted on the property lines or 

anywhere else on the lot provided that: 

(1) Fences and/or walls shall not be constructed in a drainage easement, floodway, or other 

watercourse; and 

(2) Fences and/or walls shall not be constructed in any required clear sight distance. 

 

b. Fences and/or walls in all residential zoning districts are subject to the following requirements: 

(1) No fence and/or walls shall be higher than eight (8’) feet.  Any fence and/or walls forward of 

the front building line shall not be higher than four (4’) feet; 

(2) No corrugated metal sheets, solid sheets of metal, plywood, particleboard, or similar materials 

shall be allowed; and 



Article IV  Section B 
 

Site Design Standards  Screening, Lighting, and Landscape Material 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 35 

  

(3)  No barbed wire, razor wire, or similar materials shall be allowed except for fences used for 

agricultural purposes in the R-A – Residential/Agriculture zone. 

 

c. Fences and/or walls in all non-residential zoning districts are subject to the following: 

(1)  No fence and/or walls shall be higher than 12 feet.  Any fence and/or walls in front of the 

front building line shall be limited to between two and one-half and four feet high and shall 

have a design style consistent with the architectural elements of the buildings on the site. 

(2) No corrugated metal sheets, solid sheets of metal, plywood, particleboard, barbed wire, razor 

wire, or similar materials shall be allowed. 

 

C. Streetscape  
 

1. Intent  

 

 Streetscape refers to the area between building 

facades on opposite sides of the street.  It 

consists of public rights-of-way and private but 

publicly visible space.  The streetscape site 

design standards are intended to create a 

smooth transition from the public realm to the 

private realm, provide a pleasant pedestrian 

experience, improve the appearance and 

function of the public rights-of-way, and 

reinforce and enhance the perception of the 

City as a unique and livable community.  See 

Figure 4 –1. 

 

2. Frontage Types  

  

The following Table 4-2 indicates frontage types that make up the private portion of the streetscape.  In 

zoning districts where specific setbacks are specified, any frontage type within that range may be used.  

In zoning districts where specific frontage types are specified, the frontage types may be used within 

the acceptable setbacks listed in this section and in the zoning district standards. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 4–1.  Streetscape refers to all areas visible from the 

street and fronting buildings, and may consist of  public or 

private property. 



Article IV  Section C 
 

Site Design Standards  Streetscape 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 36 

  

 

 

Table 4-2: Frontage Types 

 

Frontage Building line* Description Image 

 

 

 

Yard 

 

20’ minimum  
40’ maximum 

 

Estate dwelling units 
and Civic uses with a 

yard frontage shall have 

no maximum depth for 
the front building line. 

 

A frontage with the building set back from the right-
of-way line.  The yard area is most appropriately 

used for landscape materials, natural vegetation, or 

focal points such as art or sculptures.  The yard 
frontage is most appropriate in rural settings, 

residential neighborhoods, for residential uses along 

arterial streets where a buffer is desired, and for 
civic land uses in any setting. 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Terrace 

 
 

 

8’ minimum 
20’ maximum 

 
 

A frontage with the buildings separated from the 

right-of-way by a slightly elevated garden or small 
yard.  The terrace area is most appropriately used 

for landscape materials and entry elements, such as 

stairways, gateways or small fences or hedges.  The 
terrace frontage is most appropriate in residential 

neighborhoods or areas of steeper topography. 

 

 

 

 

 

Courtyard 

 

10’ minimum 

20’ maximum 
 

A portion of the 

building, typically more 
than 50% of the front 

façade) should be built 

at or near the right-of-
way line  

 

A frontage with a portion of the building close to the 

right-of-way line, while the remaining potion is 
setback from the right-of-way line, providing a 

pocket of open area in the courtyard.  The courtyard 

area is most appropriately used for landscape 
material or constructed patios for pedestrian traffic.  

The courtyard frontage is most appropriate on 

higher-density residential blocks or for businesses 
that can utilize formal outdoor space. 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Stoop 

 

8’ minimum 
15’ maximum 

 

A frontage with the building close to the right-of-
way line but with the first floor slightly elevated 

(typically 3 to 5 feet) to ensure privacy to occupants 

of the building.  Typically the closer the building 
line is to the right-of-way, the higher the elevation 

of the first floor should be.  The setback area is most 

appropriately used with an ornamental stair and 
entranceway to the buildings, potentially with a 

small usable space at the top.  The remaining 

portion of the setback area can include a small area 
of landscape material.  The stoop frontage is most 

appropriate for higher-density residential blocks, or 

residential buildings mixed on blocks with non-
residential buildings. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Street-front 

 
0’ minimum 

10’ maximum 

 
 

A frontage with the building at the right-of-way line 

or slightly set back from the right-of-way line.  The 
ground level of the building is predominantly 

transparent and available to uses serving the public, 

thus providing varied and interesting environment to 
pedestrians.  Any setback area is typically designed 

seamlessly with the right-of-way with either 

expanded sidewalks, landscape beds, street-front 
seating, or a covered walkway.  The street-front 

frontage is most appropriate for non-residential uses 

in pedestrian-oriented areas. 
 

 

 



Article IV  Section C 
 

Site Design Standards  Streetscape 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 37 

  

*   The building line expresses the general acceptable range for distances of principal buildings from the right-of-way.  

This range shall apply unless a more specific set back or build to line is specified for a particular zoning district. 
 

 

D. Site Access and Internal Circulation 
 

1.  Intent   

 

Site access and internal circulation standards are intended to balance the need for site-access by 

vehicles with pedestrian movements.  Design elements are intended to create a smooth transition from 

the public rights-of-way to the private property, and to improve the appearance and function of the 

public rights-of-way for all users including pedestrians, bicycles, and automobiles. 

 

2. Curb Cuts  

 

Curb cuts for property not being subdivided shall be allowed according to the same Lot Access 

standards established in the Fairhope Subdivision Regulations.  When the development process 

requires access standards different from those standards, either from a traffic study or through a 

subdivision waiver process, the revised standards shall comply with the goals of the Comprehensive 

Plan, the Subdivision Regulations, and this ordinance.  Any special access conditions for particular 

uses are indicated in Article III., Section D., and any special access conditions for particular zoning 

districts are listed in Article VI. 

 

3.   Internal Driveways, Aisles and Driveway Lanes  

 

All driveways shall be set back a minimum distance of three feet from the side lot line, except where 

shared access driveways are provided.    To the extent practical, all internal driveway aisles should be 

designed and dimensioned as closely as possible to the public street standards in the Fairhope 

Subdivision Regulations, including sidewalks, planting strips, and parking lanes. 

 

4.   Clear sight lines  

 

Clear sight lines shall be maintained for all lot access points and internal circulation intersections in 

accordance with the standards for public street intersections specified in the Fairhope Subdivision 

Regulations. 

 

5.  Off-Street Loading/Unloading  

 

Off-street loading/unloading spaces shall be provided according to the following: 

 

a.    Size of Spaces: Each off-street loading/unloading space shall have minimum dimensions of 14 feet 

in height, 12 feet in width, and 55 feet in length.  However, upon sufficient demonstration that a 

particular loading space will be used exclusively by shorter trucks, the board of adjustment may 

reduce the minimum length accordingly to as little as 35 feet. 

 

b.   Connection to Street or Lane: Each required off-street loading/unloading space shall have direct 

access to a street or lane, or have a driveway which offers satisfactory ingress and egress for 

trucks. 

 

c. Required spaces:  All non-residential buildings with uses requiring the receipt or distribution of 

materials or merchandise shall provide at least one off-street loading/unloading space per each 

10,000 square feet , or fraction thereof, of floor area located on the same lot as the building or use.  

Adjacent buildings or uses of less than 10,000 square feet may share loading/unloading spaces 

within 300 feet of the loading/unloading entrance.  All off-street loading/unloading spaces shall be 

located to not hinder free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street, or lane. 

 



Article IV  Section D 
 

Site Design Standards  Site Access and Internal Circulation 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 38 

  

d. Permanent Reservation: Areas reserved for off-street loading/unloading in accordance with the 

requirement of this ordinance shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the 

permitted use which is served is discontinued or modified unless alternate and equivalent 

loading/unloading space is provided and approved by the board of adjustment. 

 

 

E. Parking 
 

1. Intent  

 

Parking standards are intended to provide adequate access and vehicle storage for land uses, but also 

minimize negative impacts of large expanses of parking such as poor pedestrian environments, 

degraded community aesthetics, additional stormwater runoff from excess impervious surfaces, and 

under-utilized space. 

 

2. Required Parking  

 

The following Table 4-3 is the parking schedule and represents the minimum required parking spaces 

for specific land uses.  These standards shall apply in any district the use is allowed, or permitted by 

special exception.  These standards shall not apply to the CBD Overlay, where on-street parking is 

permitted. However, wherever practicable, businesses in the CBD Overlay are encouraged to provide 

off-street parking facilities.  Any specific use or district condition in Article III of this ordinance shall 

apply along with the standards and conditions of this Section.  Any area reserved for off-street parking 

in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance shall not be reduced in area or changed to any 

other use unless the permitted use, which it serves, is discontinued or modified, or alternate and 

equivalent parking space is provided to the satisfaction of the board of adjustment. 

 

Table 4-3 – Parking Schedule 

Land Use Parking Required 

Residential:  

Accessory dwelling unit 1 space per dwelling unit 

Mixed use dwelling unit 1 space per dwelling unit 

All other dwelling units  2 spaces per dwelling unit 

Lodging:  

Hotels, Motels, Boarding Houses/Dormitory, 

Manufactured Home Developments, and 

Recreational Vehicle Parks 

1 space per bedroom, mobile home, or travel trailer space, 

plus 1 space per five employees 

Bed and breakfast or tourist home 2 spaces per residential use plus one space per guest bedroom. 

Public Assembly:  

Community Centers and Clubs 1 space for each 100 feet of building under roof. 

Indoor Recreation, Outdoor Recreation , 

Entertainment Venues, Places for Worship, 

stadiums and similar places of assembly 

1 space for each 4 seats or each 200 square feet of assembly 

floor area, whichever is greater. 

Libraries, museums, and general Civic Uses  1 space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area. 

Schools, including kindergartens, playschools 

and day care centers 

1 space for each 4 seats in assembly hall, or 1 space for each 

employee, including teachers and administrators whichever is 

greater, plus 5 spaces per classroom for high school and 

colleges. 

Health Facilities:  

Hospitals, Convalescent or Nursing Homes, and 

similar institutional uses 

1 space for each 4 beds, plus 1 space for each 4 employees 

including nurses. 

Kennels and Animal Hospitals A parking area equal to 30 percent of the total enclosed or 

covered area. 

Medical, dental and health offices, and Clinics 1 space for each 200 square feet of floor area used for offices 



Article IV  Section E 
 

Site Design Standards  Parking 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 39 

  

Land Use Parking Required 

   and similar purposes. 

Mortuaries and funeral homes  5 spaces per parlor chapel unit, or 1 space per 4 seats, 

whichever is greater. 

Businesses:  

General Retail and Office establishments 

 

 

0 to 400 square feet of 

floor area - 
 

400 to 5000 square feet of 

floor area - 
 

over 5000 square feet of 

floor area --  

4 parking spaces 
 
 

same as above plus 1 for each 

additional 400 square feet 
 

same as above plus 1 parking 

space for each additional 200 

square feet 
  

Restaurants and Bars 1 space for each 4 seats up to 52 seats and 1 space for each 6 

seats thereafter. 

Automobile Service Stations A minimum of 2 off-street parking spaces is required with an 

additional off-street parking space for each lubrication or 

wash bay. 

Industries:  

Commercial, manufacturing and industrial 

establishments, not catering to retail trade 

1 space for each 3 employees on the maximum working shift, 

plus 1 space for each vehicle operating from the premises. 

Wholesale establishments 1 space for every 50 square feet of customer service area, plus 

2 spaces for each 3 employees on the maximum working 

shift, plus 1 space for each company vehicle operating from 

the premises. 

 

3. Compact Car Parking Requirement 

 a.  Compact car parking spaces shall be a minimum of 30% of the required parking spaces and no more 

than a maximum of 40% of the required parking spaces.  Compact car spaces shall be grouped 

together to the greatest extent possible.  Compact car spaces shall be designated by paint at the 

entrance of the parking stall. 

 

4. Parking Dimensions and Size  

a. Standard parking lot dimensions shall be as follows:  
 

See Figure 4–2 90  angle 60  angle 45  angle 
A – stall width 10’ 10’ 10’ 
B – stall depth 20’ 20’ 20’ 
C –  two-way aisle width 20’ 20’ 20’ 
D –  one-way aisle width 20’ 17’ 13’ 
E –   one-way single-loaded aisle width 16’ 14’ 11’ 

 

Figure 4– 2.  Parking drive aisle widths may vary depending on the configuration and angle 

of parking that the drive aisle supports. 



Article IV  Section E 
 

Site Design Standards  Parking 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 40 

  

 

b. Compact car parking dimensions shall be as follows: 

 90  angle 60  angle 45  angle 
Stall width 8’ 8’ 8’ 
Stall depth 15’ 16.8’ 16.5’ 

 
c. Parking Lot Limits 

(1) No use shall provide more than 20% more than the parking required by Table 4-3. 

(2) Any parking provided that is more than the parking required by Table 4-3 shall be designed 

with a pervious surface approved by the City.   

(3) No off-street parking area in any area zoned for residential uses shall exceed 40 spaces.   

 

5. Shared Parking  

 

In meeting the requirements of Table 4-3 – Parking Schedule, adjacent uses may share parking under 

the following conditions and standards: 

a. Adjacent landowners shall execute the necessary cross access easements to facilitate shared 

parking and record all easement documents with the Judge of Probate. 

b. A written agreement for the joint use of parking facilities shall be executed by the parties and 

approved by the City. 

c. Parking requirements shall be the cumulative requirements of the uses sharing the parking, except 

where different uses (Retail or Service, Office, Civic, or Residential) are located on the same or 

adjacent lot.   

(1) When two or more uses located on the same or adjacent lot have distinctly different hours of 

operation they may qualify for a reduction of required parking. One hundred percent of the 

required parking may be shared.  Required parking shall be based on the use that requires the 

greatest amount of parking according to Table 4-3 – Parking Schedule. 

(2) If two or more uses located on the same or adjacent lot have distinctly different peak hours of 

operation, they may qualify for a reduction of required parking.  Fifty percent of the required 

parking for each use shall be dedicated to only that use, while the other fifty percent may 

come from a pool of parking spaces shared by any use with distinctly different peak hours of 

operation. 

d. All shared parking shall be located within reasonable proximity of main entrance of the building. 

e. Direct pedestrian access to and from the building and the parking area is required. 

 

6. Low Impact Development (LID) Parking Requirements 

  

Landscaping is required for all parking lots.  The interior parking lot landscaping requirements shall 

use LID techniques and be designed by an Alabama licensed Professional Engineer and an Alabama 

licensed Landscape Architect or designer.  The following LID techniques shall be used in the interior 

of all parking lots containing 12 or more parking spaces.  The LID parking requirement landscape plan 

will be reviewed in accordance with the Tree Ordinance.  Any landscaping plan submitted in 

accordance with this subsection shall include technique 5 below and at least one of the other following 

techniques: 

 

1) First Flush Treatment: The LID landscaping design shall be sized appropriately to treat the first 

one inch of runoff into the receiving parking lot LID area. 

2) Bio-retention. 

3) Rain Garden. 

4) Vegetated Swale. 

5) Permeable Pavement Systems:  Permeable pavement systems are a required LID technique.  100% 

of parking provided over and above the minimum parking requirements shall be permeable 

pavement systems.  Typical systems are brick pavers, pervious asphalt, and pervious concrete.  

Other systems may be approved if the design engineer provides adequate documentation that 

demonstrates the proposed technique is equally or more effective that the typical permeable 

systems listed.  Approval of a proposed technique is at the sole discretion of the City during the 



Article IV  Section E 
 

Site Design Standards  Parking 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 41 

  

permitting process. 

6) Tree and Ground Cover Plantings:  When trees are required in a parking lot by the Tree Ordinance 

they shall be included and integrated into the LID design.  Species shall be as approved by the 

City Horticulturist and must be suggested by the landscape architect or designer.  There shall be 

no bare ground exposed and all ground cover proposed shall be integral to the success of LID 

techniques.  All ground cover shall be as approved by the City Horticulturist and must be 

suggested by the landscape architect or designer.   

 

7. Parking Credits 

 

A credit may be given to the requirements of Table 4-3 – Parking Schedule, under the following 

conditions: 

a. On-street parking within 300 feet of any lot line may be credited to the parking requirement at a 

rate of one credit for every two on-street parking spaces. 

b. Bicycle parking facilities within reasonable proximity of the main entrance may be credited at a 

rate of one credit for every five-bicycle parking spaces, up to a maximum of 10% of the required 

vehicle parking.  

 

F. Stormwater Management 
 

1. Intent  

 

The intent of this section is to provide for stormwater management in site design.  The primary 

management strategy should be infiltration of all runoff created by development through natural 

systems and constructed natural systems.  Should infiltration not address stormwater management for 

the site adequately, retention and detention of run-off will be required.  This section also seeks to 

incorporate any stormwater management system into the design of the site as a natural or aesthetic 

amenity. 

 

2. General Requirements  

 

All site plans shall be designed with surface drainage provisions in accordance with the Fairhope 

Subdivision Regulations, construction, building, or grading permits, and any other City ordinance 

regarding the effects of stormwater.  Developers shall take steps necessary to prevent run-off, which 

may have the potential for causing flood damage to neighboring property.  The building inspector 

shall, in consultation with the city engineer, determine that reasonable provisions for properly handling 

surface drainage have been made in the applicant’s design, and will report these findings for the 

Fairhope Planning Commission’s consideration in acting on building applications.  If reasonable 

provisions are not made in the applicant’s design, the Fairhope Planning Commission shall make the 

remedies available to the applicant a condition of the approval, or deny the application. “Dry wells,” 

biofilters, or other constructed infiltration systems may be required of sufficient capacity to receive up 

to four inches per hour rainfall on the paved area or areas required for off-street parking and loading.  

Rainfall intensity to be calculated on storm frequency determined by the commission and/or its 

consultants. 

 

3. Design Standards  

 

Storm water detention shall be screened from direct view from all abutting properties by installation 

and maintenance of living plants at least 36 inches in height at time of planting, and achieve a height of 

not less than six feet in three years after planting.  Outer slopes of detention ponds shall not be steeper 

than four feet horizontal to one-foot vertical.  Where water depth and time of detention is sufficient to 

require safety fencing, such fencing shall be installed behind required screening, on the pond side.  

 

4. Alternative Designs  

 



Article IV  Section F 
 

Site Design Standards  Stormwater Management 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 42 

  

Standards of this ordinance and any standard of this ordinance that relates to the City of Fairhope 

Subdivision Regulations may be waived to provide for an alternative stormwater design system 

provided that: 

a. The alternative stormwater design provides for an infiltration system that incorporates at least 80% 

of the runoff from impervious surfaces into the groundwater on the site and results in an overall 

reduction in impacts on streams in the watershed. 

b. The alternative stormwater design addresses stormwater on an area-wide or watershed basis 

making stormwater management on individual lots within the site unnecessary. 

c. Natural elements on the site are incorporated into a natural storm drain infrastructure minimizing 

or eliminating the need for detention ponds and other constructed storm drainage.  Constructed 

elements of the natural drainage system shall be limited to artificial wetlands, bio-filters, and dry 

swales. To the extent that it does not damage the function of the natural drainage system, natural 

elements should serve additional community purposes such as trails or greenways, parks, or 

aesthetic screens. 

d. Any waiver of standard to accommodate the alternative stormwater design proposes an equal or 

better alternative for meeting the intent of the waived standard. 

e. The alternative stormwater design is accompanied by a plan produced by a registered engineer 

testifying to its accuracy and sustainability. 

f. The alternative stormwater design plan included provisions for long-term maintenance and 

operation of the alternative design, including easements, covenants, restrictions, and an acceptable 

legal entity to oversee long-term maintenance. 

g. The alternative stormwater design plan shall accompany a site plan for the entire development. 

The plan and any waivers to the standards of this ordinance shall be approved according to the 

procedures and standards for the site plan.



Article IV  Section G 
 

Site Design Standards  Tree Preservation 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 43 

  

 

G. Tree Preservation 

 
On a site where a live Heritage Tree exists, the Planning and Building Director may grant up to a seven foot 

(7’) administrative setback variance in order to protect and/or preserve an existing Heritage Tree as defined 

in Article IX, Section C. of this Ordinance. 

 

The only types of Heritage Trees protected under this Ordinance shall include: 

 

Various Oak Trees (Quercus Species), Cedar Trees, Cypress Trees, Magnolia Trees and any other unusual 

species identified as a desirable tree by the City Horticulturist. 

 

In an effort to preserve the critical root areas for existing trees on public and private properties, trenching is 

not allowed within nine feet (9’) of any property line.  One may use a directional boring (Horizontal 

Directional Drilling – HDD) method of service installation within the 9’ no-trenching setback. 

 



Article V  Section A. 
 

Special Districts  PUD – Planned Unit Development 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  44 

 

 

Article V 

Special Districts  
 

 

A. PUD – Planned Unit Development 

B. CBD – Central Business District Overlay  

C. FH-1 Flood Hazard District 

D. R-6 Manufactured Homes 

E. AO – Airport Overlay 

F. P-1 – Parking District 

G. TR – Tourism Resort District 

H. MO – Medical Overlay District 

 I. HTD – Highway Transitional District 

 

 

 

A. PUD – Planned Unit Development 

 

1. Intent - The special standards listed in this section for the Planned Unit Development district are intended 

to: 

• Permit flexible development of projects which are comprehensively planned as a single development 

with a functional master development plan which fully considers the entire site as an integrated project 

and give broad consideration to impacts and relationships to surrounding areas. 

• encourage opportunities for development innovation tailored to a particular site, that while clearly 

furthering the goals of the comprehensive plan, could not explicitly be established by generally 

applicable standards or guidelines;  

• allow mixed-use development which offer a greater variety in type, design, and layout of buildings;  

• encourage land conservation, and more efficient use of open space;  

• permit modification of certain controls in a manner so as to produce large area development arranged 

to better serve community needs 

 

2. Size – A Planned Unit Development shall be a minimum of 3 acres. 

 

3. Permitted Uses – The PUD District shall be assembled using any of the current base zoning districts 

provided in Fairhope Zoning Ordinance. The list of permitted uses shall be described and contained in the 

master development plan accompanying each Planned Unit Development. 

 

4. Ordinance and Master Development Plan Required – Each Planned Unit Development shall have an 

Ordinance that establishes the development of regulations for the district.  In approving a Planned Unit 

Development, the ordinance shall reference the master development plan, which shall prescribe 

development standards. The master development plan after approval shall become part of the amending 

ordinance.  All development shall be in conformance with the approved master development plan and 

development regulations.   

 

a. Master development plan.  The master development plan shall include the following information: 

(1.) Written Documentation 

a. A legal description of the parcel upon which the PUD is to be built; 

b. The name of the present owner(s) and, if different, the person(s) who will be the owner(s) 

of the parcel(s) during the development of PUD; 



Article V  Section A. 
 

Special Districts  PUD – Planned Unit Development 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  45 

c. A statement of development objectives, including a description of the character of the 

proposed development and its relationship to surrounding areas; 

d. A statement of compliance with the Comprehensive Plan and pertinent regulations; 

e. A development schedule indicating the approximate date when construction of the PUD 

is expected to begin and to be completed, and any applicable phasing of construction; 

f. A statement of the applicant’s intentions with regard to future selling or leasing of all or 

portions of the PUD, including land areas and dwelling units; 

g. Estimated percentages of the PUD to be devoted to each type of land use, including any 

subcategories of residential, commercial and institutional uses, open space, and 

recreational areas; 

h. A plan for the intended manner of permanent care and maintenance of open spaces, 

recreational areas, common areas, and private streets and drives. 

(2.) A site plan, which shall include the following items, either on the site plan or on an 

accompanying document: 

a. The name of the development; 

b. The legal description of the property on which the PUD is to be developed; 

c. Scale; 

d. North arrow; 

e. A vicinity map showing the parcel in relation to the surrounding property and a general 

description of the surrounding area, including the current zoning and land uses of the 

surrounding area; 

f. A boundary survey prepared and certified by a surveyor who is licensed as a surveyor by 

the state. The survey must show all streets which are adjacent to the parcel, all easements 

and rights-of-way on the parcel and the location of any existing buildings or other 

structures which shall be a part of the PUD; 

g. Contours and elevations shown on a separate topographical survey; 

h. The density of land use to be allocated to all parts of the PUD, together with tabulations 

by acreage and percentage of the parcel to be occupied by each proposed use;  

i. Proposed lot lines and dimensions; 

j. Location, size, and character of proposed buildings and structures, including: 

i. Identification of the base zoning district related to the contemplated use(s) of the 

building.  If any proposed building does not met the standards of the base zoning 

district associated with it, provide a description of the specific standards which are 

not met by the proposed building, a description of the deviations from those 

standards, and the reasons why the deviations are necessary; 

ii. Distribution of housing types; 

iii. Number of units, stories, and maximum heights; 

iv. Proposed floor areas of all units; 

v. Elevations of buildings and structures indicating exterior materials; 

vi. Location of accessory structures or accessory dwellings; 

k. The location and size of all areas to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved as commonly 

owned space, public parks, recreational areas and similar public or semi-public uses; 

l. The location of utility easements; 

m. The existing and proposed circulation system of streets, both public and private, 

including: 

i. Location and dimensions of streets, alleys, driveways, and points of access to 

public rights-of-way; 

ii. Notation of proposed ownership; 

iii. Location, dimensions and capacities of parking areas; 

iv. Service, loading and maneuvering areas; 

v. Service yards, including, but not limited to, location of dumpsters; and 

vi. Pedestrian circulation; 

vii. Materials with which parking areas, driveways, streets, sidewalks, and trails will 

be covered; 

n. The locations, intensity, and height of exterior lights; 

o. The locations of mechanical equipment and proposed screening; 



Article V  Section A. 
 

Special Districts  PUD – Planned Unit Development 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  46 

p. Location of outside storage and/or display; 

q. Proposed drive-through locations; 

r. Landscape plan in accordance with the City’s Tree/Landscape Ordinance, including; 

i. Location of existing trees, indicating which trees will be preserved/removed; 

ii. Treatment of materials used for private and common open spaces; 

iii. The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the PUD including materials and 

techniques to be used;  

s. The location, size, and character of any common open space, or any commonly owned 

facilities, and the type of organization which will own and maintain any commonly 

owned open space or facilities; 

t. Location, materials, and elevation of any and all fences and/or walls; 

u. Location and size of all signage; 

v. Hours of operation of any nonresidential use; 

w. Mitigation of noise, fumes, odors, vibration or airborne particles; 

x. Drainage; 

y. Access and location of utilities. 

z. Any additional data, plans, or specifications which the applicant or the City believes is 

pertinent. 

 

5. Conditions Related to Approval 

a.   Preapplication conference.  Before filing an application for a Planned Unit Development, the 

prospective applicant shall schedule a preapplication conference with the Planning Director.  At the 

preapplication conference the prospective applicant shall present to the Planning Director a proposed 

plan for review, and discuss pertinent development matters including, but not limited to, the following:  

 

b. Application. In addition to the general criteria for zoning map amendments, a map amendment to the 

PUD district shall include a preliminary master development plan to be reviewed for compliance with 

the goals and intent of the Comprehensive Plan, this ordinance, and the health, safety, and general 

welfare of the people of the City. 

(1.) The required preliminary master development plan shall include those items described in Article 

V. Section A.4.a (master development plan).  The preliminary master development plan is 

intended as a draft, which will be edited and improved based upon review of staff, Planning 

Commission, and City Council prior to adoption as a final master development plan that may be 

codified with the Ordinance that creates/amends a PUD. 

(2.) In addition to the general criteria for zoning map amendments, a map amendment to the PUD 

district shall include review of the following conditions for compliance with the goals and intent 

of the Comprehensive Plan and this ordinance. 

i.Setbacks for building structures 

ii. Public street access 

iii. Vehicular traffic, circulation, connections, and parking 

iv.Screening or buffer zones 

v.Hours of operation 

vi.Activities or uses permitted on the property 

vii.Building or structure heights 

viii.Landscaping 

ix.Maximum lot coverage, impervious percentages 

x.Pedestrian circulation 

xi.Signs 

xii.Mitigation of noise, fumes, odors, vibration or airborne particles 

xiii.Exterior lighting 

xiv. Exterior construction materials 

 

6. Building Permit Compliance – No building permit for any structure shall be issued, nor shall a Certificate 

of Occupancy be granted until the development plans are consistent with the site plan and development 

regulations of the approved Planned Unit Development.  All building permits must be consistent with the 

Planned Unit Development.  



Article V  Section A. 
 

Special Districts  PUD – Planned Unit Development 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  47 

 

 

7. Planned Unit Development Amendments – Changes or amendments to a Planned Unit Development 

shall be processed in the same manner as the original request.  Slight changes in the detail of the Planned 

Unit Development that do not change the intent, meaning, relationship of structures to each other may be 

approved by the Director of Planning. 

 

8.  Failure to begin construction – Construction of the approved development must begin within one year 

from the date of the approval of the master development plan by the City Council.  Any approved changes 

in the plan shall not extend the time at which said one-year period begins to run. The planning commission 

may, no sooner than 60 days prior to the end of said one-year period, upon the written request of the 

applicant, extend such one-year period for a period of not more than one year if, in the judgment of the 

planning commission, such additional time is warranted. 

 

In any event, the construction of the PUD must be started within two years of the approval of the master 

development plan by the city council.  Failure to being the development of the PUD within said one-year 

period, or the period as extended, shall automatically void the master development plan, and the zoning 

classification shall automatically revert to the zoning classification of RA – Residential/Agriculture 

District.   

 

B. CBD – Central Business District Overlay 

 
1.  Intent – The Central Business District overlay is intended to preserve downtown Fairhope as the “Regional 

Village Center” and focal point for the City. The CBD overlay shall provide an environment for shopping, 

restaurant and entertainment, cultural and artistic institutions, offices, governmental functions, and 

residential uses. The CBD is intended to have a unique character in the City and serve the entire community 

by: 

• generating high levels of pedestrian and bicycle traffic; 

• providing a mix of uses; 

• create a focal point for activities throughout the City; 

• link to adjacent areas and areas throughout the City through a variety of modes of transportation; 

• strengthen non-automobile connections to adjacent neighborhoods; 

• buffer surrounding neighborhoods from any adverse impacts of activities in the CBD; and 

• provide small parks and trails. 

 

2.  Location and Size – The CBD overlay includes: From the southeast corner of the intersection of Oak 

Avenue and N. Church Street run east along the south side of Oak Avenue to a point on the east side of N. 

Section Street; one parcel on the north side of Oak Avenue from N. Section to the east end of Oak Avenue; 

one parcel on the east side of N. Bancroft Street from the north side of Oak Avenue to a point on the south 

side of Pine Avenue and along the east property line one parcel east of N. Bancroft Street; thence run east 

along the north property line of one parcel to a point; thence run south along the east property line to the 

south side of Equality Street; the west side of N. School Street from Equality Street to the south side of 

Stimpson Avenue; the south side of Stimpson Avenue to the east end of Stimpson Avenue; south to a point 

on the south side of Fairhope Avenue that is one parcel west of Mershon Street; one parcel on the south 

side of Fairhope Avenue from one parcel west of Mershon Street to the west side of S. School Street; to a 

point one parcel south of Morphy Avenue on the west of S. School Street; south to the west end of the 

unopened portion of right-of-way of Fels Avenue; along the north side of Fels Avenue from the northwest 

corner of the intersection of Fels Avenue and Oswalt Street to a point at the northeast corner of Fels 

Avenue and S. Church Street; north one parcel to a point one parcel south of Morphy Avenue;  west to a 

point two lots west of S. Church Street; north to the north side of Morphy Avenue west to the northeast 

corner of the intersection of Morphy Avenue and S. Summit Street; along the east side of Summit Street to 

the southeast corner of the intersection of N. Summit Street and Magnolia Avenue; along the south side of 

Magnolia Avenue to the southeast corner of the intersection of Magnolia Avenue and N. Church Street; 

along the east side of N. Church Street to the southeast corner of the intersection of N. Church Street and 

Oak Avenue. 

 



Article V  Section A. 
 

Special Districts  PUD – Planned Unit Development 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  48 

3.  Uses – All uses permitted in the underlying zoning district are allowed in the CBD Overlay, provided that 

uses of property shall meet the intent of the Comprehensive Plan and Section E.1 of this Article. Any future  

 



Article V  Section B. 
 

Special Districts  CBD – Central Business District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  49 

 rezoning in the CBD overlay may be conditioned so that the goals and intent of the Comprehensive Plan 

and Article V., Section B.1. of the Zoning Ordinance are achieved. 

a. Short-term rentals shall be allowed within the CBD, regardless of the underlying zoning district. 

 

4.  Dimension Standards – All dimension standards for the underlying districts shall apply in the CBD 

overlay except as follows: 

a. Non-residential buildings in the CBD shall be built at the right-of-way line, unless a courtyard, plaza or 

other public open space is proposed. 

b.  No side-setback is required for non-residential buildings in the CBD, except that corner lots shall have 

the same building line on the side street as is on the front street. 

c.  Building heights for all structures shall not exceed 40 feet or 3 stories. 

d.  Parking – 

(1) No parking is required for non-residential uses in the CBD. If parking is provided, it shall be 

located behind the building, screened from public rights-of-way, and have a direct pedestrian 

connection to the primary building entrance of the public right-of-way. 

(2) Dwelling units in the CBD shall provide the required parking.  It shall be located behind the 

building, screened from public rights-of-way, and have a direct pedestrian connection to the 

primary building entrance of the public right-of-way. 

(3) Residential and office is encouraged on the upper floors of buildings; lower floors are encouraged 

to be retail or restaurants. 

e.  Sidewalks shall be a minimum of eight feet (8’) in width for all new construction. This may be 

reduced, through the site plan approval process, upon satisfactorily demonstrating to the City Council 

that streetscape improvements constrain the site to the extent that eight feet (8’) is not feasible.  In no 

case shall the sidewalk width be less than six feet (6’) in width.  A written request must be made with 

accompanying justification statement and drawings for consideration of reduction in sidewalk width.  

f.    A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the gross floor area on the ground floor of a mixed-use building 

in the CBD shall be dedicated to commercial uses.  For the purposes of this calculation, gross floor 

area is defined as the total floor area contained on the ground floor within a building measured to the 

external face of external walls and shall include, but not be limited to, internal service areas, internal 

parking, internal stairwells, and internal common spaces. Retail and restaurants are encouraged on the 

ground floor adjacent to public streets.   

 

C. FH-1 Flood Hazard District 
  

1. Intent – The Flood Hazard District is intended to secure life and property from peril and damage of natural 

flood hazards, protect property values, and insure compliance with Federal flood insurance eligibility 

requirements. 

 

2. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability – The degree of flood and erosion protection required by this 

ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific methods of study.  

Larger floods may occur.  This ordinance does not imply that areas outside the flood hazard district 

boundaries or land uses permitted within these districts will be free from flooding or flood damages.  This 

ordinance shall not create liability on the part of the city or any City officer or employee for any flood 

damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or for any administrative decision made under this 

ordinance. 

 

3. Location – The boundaries of the flood districts shall be determined by scaling distances on the official 

zoning map and/or the Federal Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).  Where interpretation is needed as to the exact 

location of the boundaries of the district, the board of adjustment shall make the necessary interpretation.  

The person contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to 

present his case to the board and to submit his own technical evidence if he so desires.  

  

4. Permitted Uses in FH-1 – Provided the use is in accordance with the Flood Ordinance of the City of 

Fairhope (Ordinance No. 1165) and are not prohibited by any other ordinance or any underlying zoning 

district, permitted uses and standards for this district follow: 



Article V  Section B. 
 

Special Districts  CBD – Central Business District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  50 

a. Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture grazing, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, 

viticulture, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting. 

b. Industrial-commercial uses such as loading areas, parking areas, and airport landing strips. 

c. Private and public recreational uses such as beaches, beach cabanas not suitable for use as dwellings, 

boardwalks and steps to permit access, pavilions and other similar small platforms, lifeguard stations, 

golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, 

swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, 



Article V  Section C. 
 

Special Districts  FH-1 Flood Hazard District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  51 

target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, hiking and horseback riding trails, 

temporary structures for sale of food and refreshments, arts and crafts. 

d. Structures shall be constructed on fill, pilings or raised by other means so that the first floor and 

basement floor are elevated above the regulatory flood protection level. The fill shall be at a point no 

lower than one (1) foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation for the particular area, as 

determined by the agency specified in local, state or federal law to establish such elevations, and shall 

extend at such elevation at least ten (10) feet beyond the limits of any structure or building erected 

hereon.   

e. No use shall affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any stream, drainage ditch, or any other 

drainage facility or system. 

 

D.  R-6 Manufactured Home District 
 

1. Intent – The intent of the standards for Manufactured Home Districts is to: 

• Provide opportunities for affordable dwelling units; 

• Allow construction of single-family housing that is an alternative to “stick-built” homes; 

• Ensure design standards that result in neighborhoods equivalent to those enjoyed by other single-

family home developments; 

• Ensure location and design standards compatible with community goals and surrounding property. 

 

2. Site Requirements  

a. The development shall meet the stormwater requirements of the subdivision regulations. 

b. A manufactured home development shall be on a site between two and four acres.  Manufactured home 

developments may be larger than 4 acres only where the special design requirements in Section D.5. 

are met. 

c. Where any boundary of a manufactured home development directly abuts a residential district or use, 

an 8-foot fence or wall, or an evergreen barrier approved by the City Horticulturist shall be provided.  

d. Each development shall provide manufactured home spaces, and each space shall be clearly delineated.  

Each space shall have an area of not less than 3,200 square feet and a width of not less than 30 feet. 

The average width of all spaces shall be not less than 40 feet.  Spaces may be platted as individual lots 

provided the Special Design Requirements in Section D.5. are met. 

e. There shall be at least a 20-foot clearance between manufactured homes and between manufactured 

homes and any other structure.  

f. All manufactured home spaces shall abut upon a driveway not less than twenty (20) feet in width, 

which shall have unobstructed access to a public street, alley or highway. 

g. Walkways not less than two feet wide shall be provided from the manufactured home spaces to the 

service buildings. 

h. All driveways and walkways within the park shall be hard surfaced and lighted at night with electric 

lamps of not less than 250 watts each, spaced at intervals of not more than 100 feet. 

i. An electrical outlets supplying at least 100-115/220/250 volts, 100 amperes shall be provided for each 

mobile home space. 

 

3. License – It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a manufactured home park within the 

corporate limits of the City of Fairhope, Alabama, without first obtaining a license. 

a.  License Fees and Temporary Permit Fees:  

(1) The annual license fee for each manufactured home park shall be set by the city council. 

(2) The fee for transfer of a license shall be five dollars. 

b.  Application for License:  

(1) Application for initial manufactured home development license shall be filed with the Director of 

Planning and Building.  The application shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and shall 

include the following: 

(a) The name and address of the applicant; 

(b) The location and legal description of the manufactured home park; 

(c) A complete plan of the development in conformity with the requirements of this section; 

(d) Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements and facilities constructed or to be 

constructed within the manufactured home development;



Article V  Section D. 
 

Special Districts  R-6 Manufactured Home District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  52 

(e) Other information required by the planning commission to enable it to determine if the 

proposed development will comply with legal requirements.   

(f) The application and all accompanying plans and specifications shall be filed in triplicate. 

(2) Upon application in writing by a licensee for renewal of a license and upon payment of the annual 

license fee, the city shall issue a certificate renewing the license for another year. 

c. Revocation of License: The City of Fairhope, Alabama, may revoke any license to maintain and 

operate a manufactured home development when the licensee has been found guilty by a court of 

competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this ordinance.  After the correction of such 

condition and the payment of the penalties imposed by law and assurance given to the city council that 

such condition will not be repeated, the city council may issue a new license. 

d. Posting and Temporary Permit: The license certificate or temporary permit shall be conspicuously 

posted in the office of or on the premises of the manufactured home development at all times. 

 

4. Utilities, Public Services and Safety  

a. Water Supply: Adequate supply of pure water for drinking and domestic purposes shall be supplied by 

pipes to all buildings and manufactured home spaces within the park.  Each manufactured home space 

shall be provided with a cold-water tap at least four inches above the ground. 

b. Sewage and Refuse Disposal: 

(1) Each manufactured home space shall be provided with a sewer line at least four inches in 

diameter, which shall be connected to receive the all wastewater.  The sewer in each space shall be 

connected to discharge the manufactured home waste into a public sewer system in compliance 

with applicable ordinance or septic tank systems for each lot meeting all applicable design 

standards to prevent health hazards. 

(2) Metal garbage cans with tight-fitting covers shall be provided in quantities adequate to permit 

disposal of all garbage and rubbish.  No manufactured home space shall be more than 300 feet 

from a garbage can.  The cans shall be kept in sanitary condition at all times.  Garbage and rubbish 

shall be collected and disposed of as frequently as may be necessary to insure that the garbage 

cans shall not overflow. 

c. Fire Protection:  Fire protection shall be required to meet all regulations and conditions of other City 

codes and of the Fairhope Volunteer Fire Department. 

d. Supervision: The licensee, or a duly authorized attendant, caretaker or association, shall be in charge at 

all times to keep the manufactured home development, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly 

and sanitary condition.  The attendant or caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee, for the 

violation of any provision of this ordinance to which the licensee is subject. 

 

5. Special Design Requirements – Spaces in a manufactured home development may be platted as individual 

lots or may exceed 4 acres provided all of the following additional special design requirements are met: 

a. The overall development is greater than 5 acres. 

b. At least 15% of the project area is preserved as public or common open space.  Open space shall be 

centrally located to the entire development and designed for community gathering. 

c. An association is established for on-going maintenance of the grounds. 

d. All dwelling units shall be oriented to a public street, including a front door or porch with a four-foot 

wide sidewalk connecting to the public sidewalk.   

e. All dwelling units on a single street shall have the same setback from the public right-of-way.  The 

front setback shall be between 20 and 30 feet.  Side setbacks shall be a minimum of eight feet.  Rear 

setbacks shall be a minimum of 20 feet. 

f. Vehicle access to individual lots shall be by a rear lane.  Parking spaces, carports, or garages shall be 

located behind the dwelling units. 

g. No dwelling unit shall be more than two times longer in one dimension than it is any other dimension. 

h. All dwelling units shall have a roof pitch of at least 4:12 and eaves that overhang the exterior walls by 

a minimum of one foot. 

i. The overall gross density for the project, including open areas, shall not be greater than six units per 

acre. 

j. All dwelling units shall have individually metered utility connections to public facilities for sanitary 

sewer and water.  

 



Article V  Section E. 
 

Special Districts  AO – Airport Overlay 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  53 

E. AO – Airport Overlay 
 

1. Intent and Authority – The Airport overlay promotes the health, safety, and general welfare of the public by 

preventing the creation and establishment of land uses incompatible with the operations of the Fairhope 

Municipal Airport and requiring the incorporation of outdoor-to-indoor noise attenuation measures for the 

construction of certain structures within the boundary of the Airport Overlay District Zone.  The Airport 

Overlay is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Title 4, Chapter 6, Section 1 through 15, Code of 

Alabama, 1975. 

 

2.  Findings – The City finds that certain land uses are incompatible with noise generated by aircraft using the 

Fairhope Municipal Airport and that these land uses have the potential to impair the existing and future utility of 

the Fairhope Municipal Airport and the public investment in the Airport.  Accordingly, it is declared: 

a. That the establishment and construction of noise sensitive developments in the vicinity of the airport have 

the potential of limiting the existing and future utility of the airport and may adversely affect the region 

served by the Fairhope Municipal Airport; 

b. That noise sensitive developments in the vicinity of the airport have the potential to become land uses 

incompatible with airport operations over time and it is necessary in the interest of the public health, public 

safety, and general welfare that the creation or establishment of incompatible land uses be prevented. 

c. The prevention of the creation or establishment of incompatible land uses, and the elimination, removal, 

alteration, and mitigation of incompatible land uses are public purposes. 

d. That land in the vicinity of the airport has the potential of being exposed to sound levels of 65 Ldn and 

higher. 

e. That the construction of certain noise sensitive developments in the vicinity of the airport should include 

outdoor-to-indoor noise attenuation features to ensure compatibility with existing and future noise levels. 

f. That the Fairhope Municipal Airport fulfills an essential community purpose. 

g. The Airport overlay promotes the implementation of modest measures that will prevent conflicts between 

future residential homeowners and the airport that could require expensive retroactive noise insulation 

programs, residential relocation programs, and restrictions on the efficient operation of the Fairhope 

Municipal Airport. 

 

3. Applicability – The Airport overlay is applicable to all lands lying within the Airport Overlay District Zone, 

which is delineated on the Fairhope Municipal Airport Overlay Zoning Map adopted as part of the Airport 

Overlay District Zoning Ordinance of the City of Fairhope, Alabama. 

 

4. Noise Requirements - Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, noise sensitive structures shall 

incorporate outdoor-to-indoor noise level reduction measures into the design and/or construction of the 

structure. 

a. Noise Attenuation Performance Standards – The performance standard for the level of sound attenuation 

for noise sensitive structures constructed in the Airport Overlay District Zone shall be equivalent to 

achieving an interior noise level of 45 dB (A-weighted) when the structure is exposed to an outdoor noise 

exposure level of 65 Ldn or higher. 

b. Noise Attenuation Methods – Noise reduction may be accomplished through design standards and/or 

construction materials.  Noise attenuation design measures and materials are referenced in the City 

Standard Building Code of the City of Fairhope, as amended.  In all cases, construction shall conform with 

the general requirements of the City Standard Building Code of the City of Fairhope as amended. 

c. Noise Attenuation in Noise Sensitive Commercial Structures – Only those portions of commercial 

structures associated with noise sensitive activities must incorporate noise level reduction measures 

sufficient to achieve an interior noise level of 45 dB (A-weighted) when the structure is exposed to an 

outdoor noise exposure level of 65 Ldn or higher. 

d. Architect or Engineer Review – An architect or engineer shall review the plans to determine if the building 

design complies substantially with the intent of the ordinance. 

e. Aviation Easement – The owner applying for approval to construct a noise sensitive structure or residential 

subdivision within the area under the Runway Approach Surfaces located within the Airport Noise Overlay 

District shall agree to grant to the Fairhope Airport Authority, without compensation, an aviation easement 

for the passage of aircraft and the right to cause in all airspace above the surface of the Grantor’s property 

noise and other effects that may be caused by aircraft operating at the Fairhope Municipal Airport. 



Article V  Section E. 
 

Special Districts  AO – Airport Overlay 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  54 

 

5. Use Restriction – Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Ordinance, no use shall be made of structures, 

land, or water within the Airport Overlay District Zone to: 

a. create physical or electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication between the 

airport and aircraft; 

b. make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others, or result in glare in the eyes of 

pilots using the airport; 

c. create bird strike hazards; or  

d. otherwise endanger or interfere in any way with the landing, take off, or maneuvering of aircraft intending 

to use the airport. 

 

6. Nonconforming uses  

a. Regulations Not Retroactive:  The Airport Overlay shall not require the removal, soundproofing, or other 

change or alteration of any noise sensitive structure not conforming to the regulations as of the effective 

date of this Ordinance, or otherwise interfere with continuance of a nonconforming use.  

b. Building Additions:  A non-conforming noise sensitive structure existing at the time this Ordinance is 

enacted may be extended or enlarged, provided the extension or enlargement to the structure meets the 

requirements of this Ordinance. 

c. Nonconforming Uses Abandoned or Destroyed:  Whenever the Director of Planning and Building 

determines that a nonconforming noise sensitive structure has been abandoned, or more than 50 percent 

destroyed, physically deteriorated, or decayed (based on assessed value), the rebuilding or repair of the 

structure shall comply with the requirements of this Ordinance. 

 

7.  Permits  

a. Building Permit Required:  No noise sensitive structure shall be constructed in the Airport Overlay District 

unless a permit has been applied for and granted by the Planning and Building Department.  Each 

application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient 

particularity to determine whether the resulting structure would conform to these regulations.   

b. Variances:  An application for a variance in the Airport overlay shall first be submitted to the Airport 

Authority.  If the Airport Authority does not respond to the application within 15 days after receipt, the 

applicant may file an appeal with Board of Adjustments and Appeals.  The Board of Adjustment and 

Appeals may act on its own to grant or deny the application  

c. Permit Application Requirements:  An application for a permit shall be accompanied by a plat or plan 

showing the location of the lot to be built upon and the location of the proposed structure; a certification 

from a registered architect, engineer, or acoustician that the plans for the structure include noise attenuation 

measures adequate to meet the requirements of this Ordinance; together with such other information as the 

Planning and Building Department may deem necessary to enforce properly the provisions of this 

Ordinance. 

 

F. P-1 – Parking District  
 

1. Intent – The Parking District designates one or more lots, parcels, tracts, or sites to be used exclusively for the 

parking of vehicles, either outdoors or indoors.  Lands in the P-1 District shall not be used for the construction 

of any building or structure other than as specifically permitted herein. 

 

2. Uses – Parking lots are the only use allowed in the P-1 Parking District.  Parking garages may be permitted on 

appeal in the P-1 District, where the Board has determined the use to be compatible with other uses existing in 

the neighborhood.  Lands occupied by buildings or structures shall not be designated P-1 while such buildings 

or structures exist.  No parking garage shall exceed two (2) stories or thirty-feet (30’) in height except upon 

approval of the planning commission. 

  

3.  Lot Area, Width and Maximum Coverage – None specified, except that all lots in the P-1 district shall 

comply with the intent and requirements regarding parking size, dimension, landscape, and site design standards 

of other zoning districts. 



Article V  Section G 
 

Special Districts  TR – Tourism Resort District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  55 

G. TR – Tourism Resort District 
 

1. Intent – It is the purpose of this Article in creating a Tourism-Resort District (“TR District”) to:   

• provide for large acreage under unified control to be planned and developed as a whole;  

• encourage the growth of resort-oriented residential and mixed-use properties around resort 

properties;   

• provide places for resort-type amenities coupled with proximately located hotel, residential 

and commercial uses; 

• promote a sustainable future, and encourage and develop connections between environmental 

quality and economic vitality; 

• provide for a mix of residential types that are designed to form a compact, compatible and 

stable neighborhood directed toward resort and tourism trade;   

• support the development of a comprehensive pedestrian network with linkages to and between 

residential and resort areas;  

• promote increased privacy by permitting private roadways within the TR District property; 

• promote the preservation and enhancement of existing natural landscape features and their 

scenic qualities; 

• create a zoning classification which allows flexibility and creative development concepts that 

would not be possible through conventional zoning regulations and allow for certain 

modifications and exemptions from existing subdivision and other regulations; 

• provide places for social interaction and recreation;  

• provide general merchandising convenience destinations for both residents and tourists; and 

• create development opportunities which encourage multiple use of recreational and other 

resort-type amenities by hotel guests as well as residents within the TR District.   

 

2. Size Requirements – A TR District must initially contain at least 175 contiguous acres.   

 

3. Location Requirements – At the time any real property is submitted for zoning as part of a TR District zoning 

classification, the following existing resort amenities must be situated within the real property being subjected 

to the TR District zoning classification or within two (2) miles of the real property being submitted to the TR 

District zoning classification: 

 

• An existing full-service hotel (i.e., a hotel providing hotel room accommodations, on-site 

dining (with on-site kitchen), conference facilities and swimming pool) containing a 

minimum of 300 hotel rooms;  

• at least one (1) 18-hole championship golf course with related facilities (driving range and 

other golf practice areas), a clubhouse (which shall provide food services and contain an on-

site kitchen), swimming pool and tennis courts (which uses and facilities may be provided in 

the form of a private or semi-private club or pursuant to use agreements which require the 

approval of membership privileges and the payment of a membership fee and monthly dues 

and charges); and  

• a marina.   

The resort property containing the foregoing required resort attributes need not be located within the municipal 

limits of the City or otherwise subjected to the TR District zoning classification.  The owner of the real property 

upon which such resort facilities described above are situated shall have the right (but not the obligation), in its 

discretion, to cause any of its property to be annexed into the municipal limits of the City at any time and to 

cause all or any portion of its property to be zoned as part of the TR District. 

 

4. Residential Density Limitations - The overall gross density for all residential areas within a TR District shall 

be no greater than 3.5 units per gross acre within all of the acreage comprising the TR District.  

 



Article V  Section G 
 

Special Districts  TR – Tourism Resort District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  56 

5. Open Space Requirements - All TR Districts shall provide at least 20% open space and\or green space, as 

herein defined.  As used herein, open space and/or green space may consist of any real property which is (a) 

part of a natural area, including tree and other preserves, lakes, beaches, walkways, walking trails, pedestrian 

ways, walkways, walking paths, creeks and other waterways, including wetland areas and ponds, and water 

areas which serve as retention, detention or similar holding basins and (b) any real property usable for active or 

passive recreational purposes, including, without limitation, play grounds, swim and tennis facilities, green or 

open areas, parks, golf course amenities such as golf course, fairways, greens, bunkers, driving ranges and other 

practice facilities but shall not include any rights-of-way.   

 
6. Uses and Development Zones –  

 

a.  Uses Allowed and Development Zones.     

(1)  Uses Allowed -- Uses allowed within the TR District may include any and all of the following: 

 (i) Single-family attached and detached dwellings; 

(ii) Multi-family residential dwelling units, senior living facilities, low-rise, mid-rise 

and a limited number of high-rise residential buildings (including 

condominiums);  

(iii) Hotels, conference facilities, restaurants, bars, swimming pools, tennis courts, 

golf courses, club houses, country clubs and related amenities and facilities;  

(iv) Specific office, retail and limited commercial uses as well as any of the 

foregoing uses which are combined with residential uses in the same building so 

long as the residential uses are located on the second and higher floors of such 

building; and 

 (v) Nature and recreational areas and facilities. 

(2) Development Zones -- The following described development zones (collectively, the 

“Development Zones”) are permitted within a TR District:  (a) Recreation Zone; (b) Low-Rise 

Residential Zone, (c) Limited Commercial Zone, (d) Mid-Rise Residential Zone, (e) High-Rise 

Residential Zone and (f) Resort Zone.  The Development Zones within a TR District (i) shall be 

established on the zoning map for such TR District, (ii) may be used only for the uses set forth 

below applicable to each Development Zone and (iii) shall be subject to the dimensional and other 

standards and requirements established below for each Development Zone.   

b. Recreation Zone.  The following restrictions and limitations shall apply to all areas designated as a 

“Recreation Zone” on the zoning map for the TR District: 

 

(1) Permitted Uses – Golf courses, golf driving ranges and golf practice facilities; tennis courts and 

related facilities; lakes, docks, boat launches, fishing and swimming piers and similar structures; 

pools, spas, swimming areas and related facilities; playgrounds; amphitheaters, performance and 

other social gathering venues and facilities; clubhouses, bathhouses, changing facilities, 

clubhouse-related restaurants and lounges, retail pro-shops and rental service facilities; fitness 

facilities, conference facilities, educational facilities, and maintenance and service facilities for 

any of the foregoing uses; similar uses and facilities related to the foregoing; natural areas, parks, 

playgrounds, picnic areas and shelters, trails, boardwalks, paths, walkways and pathways, 

landscaping, drainage, soil conservation, wetlands, creeks, waterway and other water areas, and 

conservation areas.   

 

(2) Dimensional Standards -  



Article V  Section G 
 

Special Districts  TR – Tourism Resort District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  57 

 

(i) Height.  Building Height not to exceed 45 feet.  

 

(ii) Build-To Lines.  20 foot front; 15 foot rear and 5 foot sides. 

 

(iii) Minimum Lot Size. None. 

 

(iv) Parking.  One parking space for each 500 square feet of gross heated and cooled floor 

area of any building. 

 
c.  Low-Rise Residential Zone.  The following restrictions and limitations shall apply to all areas 

designated as a “Low-Rise Residential Zone” on the zoning map for the TR District: 

 
(1) Permitted Uses – Attached and detached dwelling units (which includes, without limitation, 

cluster homes, patio homes, duplexes, multi-family units, apartments, condominiums, townhouses,  

and zero-lot line homes); accessory structures such as attached and detached garages with garage 

apartments (garage apartments will not count as a separate dwelling unit), swimming pools, tennis 

courts, tennis and pool equipment and maintenance facilities; congregated attached or detached 

dwellings requiring specialized services to be provided, including, but not limited to, independent 

senior housing, assisted senior housing and Alzheimer care facilities and nursing home facilities 

(“Senior-Oriented Communities”); associated services relating to Senior-Oriented Communities, 

including, but not limited to, health-care and medical facilities, laundry, dining and food 

preparation facilities, wellness and recreational facilities, retail and office facilities, storage and 

maintenance facilities and other uses and facilities commonly found in Senior-Oriented 

Communities; and any of the Permitted Uses allowed in the Recreation Zone.   

 
(2) Dimensional Standards – 

 

(i) Height.  Building Height not to exceed 35 feet. 

 

(ii) Build-To Lines.   

 
a. Detached Dwellings:  5-foot front; 5-foot rear and 0-foot sides; provided, 

that (x) each lot shall have at least one (1) side property line which is at 

least 12 feet from the dwelling on the adjoining lot and (y) if access to a 

dwelling is provided via a lane or alley, there is no minimum rear build-to 

line for any garage constructed at the rear of a dwelling. 

 

b. Attached Dwellings:  5-foot front; 5-foot rear and 0-foot sides; provided, 

that (x) there must be a minimum distance of 12 feet between buildings and 

(y) if access to a dwelling is provided via a lane or alley, there is no 

minimum rear build-to line for any garage constructed at the rear of a 

dwelling. 

 

(iii) Minimum Lot Size.  2,100 square feet. 

 

(iv) Parking.  All uses other than Senior-Oriented Communities, two (2) spaces per 

dwelling unit; Senior-Oriented Communities, one (1) space per dwelling unit. 

 

d. Mid-Rise Residential Zone.  The following restrictions and limitations shall apply to all areas 

designated as a “Mid-Rise Residential Zone” on the zoning map for the TR District: 

 

(1) Permitted Uses – Multi-family units, apartments, condominiums, townhouses; Senior-Oriented 

Communities; associated services relating to Senior-Oriented Communities, including, but not 

limited to, health-care and medical facilities, laundry, dining and food preparation facilities, 



Article V  Section G 
 

Special Districts  TR – Tourism Resort District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  58 

wellness and recreational facilities, retail and office facilities, storage and maintenance facilities 

and other uses and facilities commonly found in Senior-Oriented Communities; and any of the 

Permitted Uses allowed in the Low-Rise Residential Zone and the Recreation Zone.   

 
(2) Dimensional Standards – 

 
(i) Height.  Building Height not to exceed 55 feet; provided, however, that (1) if the 

Building Height of any buildings within the Mid-Rise Residential Zone may 

exceed 35 feet, then the Application for TR District zoning shall set forth the 

maximum number of dwelling units which may be developed within the Mid-

Rise Residential Zone in buildings which exceed 35 feet in Building Height. 

 

(ii) Build-To Lines.  20 foot front; 15 foot rear and 0 foot sides; provided that (x) 

there must be a minimum distance of 20 feet between buildings and (y) if access 

to a dwelling is provided via a lane or alley, there is no minimum rear build-to 

line for any garage constructed at the rear of a dwelling. 

 

(iii) Minimum Lot Size.  None. 

 

(iv) Parking.  All uses other than Senior-Oriented Communities, two (2) spaces per 

dwelling unit; Senior-Oriented Communities, one (1) space per dwelling unit. 

 

e. Limited Commercial Zone.  The following restrictions and limitations shall apply to all areas 

designated as “Limited Commercial Zone” on the zoning map for the TR District: 

 
(1) Permitted Uses – Those retail, office and other uses which are set forth as permitted uses in Table 

3.1 (Use Table) of the Zoning Ordinance in effect as of January 1, 2010 for all B-1, B-2, B-3a, B-

3b and B-4 zoning districts; home occupations and convenience stores with gasoline service; 

attached single-family residential uses located above retail or office uses; and all Permitted Uses 

allowed in the Low-Rise Residential Zone and the Recreation Zone. 

 

(2) Dimensional Standards –  

 

(i) Height.  Building Height not to exceed 45 feet. 

 

(ii) Build-To Lines.  15 foot front; 10 foot rear and 0 foot sides; provided that there 

is a minimum distance of 10 feet between buildings. 

 

(iii) Minimum Lot Size.  None. 

 

(iv) Parking.  Two (2) parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross heated and 

cooled retail and office floor area of any office or retail building; and two (2) 

parking spaces for each single-family dwelling unit. 

 

(3) Maximum Density – No more than 108,000 gross square feet of non-residential floor area shall be 

allowed within all Limited Commercial Zones of the applicable TR District. 

 

f. High-Rise Residential Zone.  The following restrictions and limitations shall apply to all areas 

designated as “High-Rise Residential Zone” on the zoning map for the TR District: 

 

(1) Permitted Uses – A limited number of high-rise multi-story residential attached dwelling units; 

any of the Permitted Uses allowed in the Mid-Rise Residential Zone, the Low-Rise Residential 

Zone and the Recreation Zone. 

 

(2) Dimensional Standards –  



Article V  Section G 
 

Special Districts  TR – Tourism Resort District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  59 

 
(i) Height.  Building Height not to exceed 100 feet; provided, however, that (1) not 

more than two (2) buildings total may be constructed at heights higher than 55 

feet and (2) the Application for TR District zoning shall set forth the maximum 

number of dwelling units which may be developed within the High-Rise 

Residential Zone in buildings which exceed 55 feet in Building Height. 

 

(ii) Build-To Lines.  20 foot front; 15 foot rear and 0 foot sides; provided, that there 

is a minimum distance of 20 feet between buildings. 

 

(iii) Minimum Lot Size.  None. 

 

(iv) Parking.  Two parking spaces for each dwelling unit. 

 

g. Resort Zone.  The following restrictions and limitations shall apply to all areas designated as “Resort 

Zone” on the zoning map for the TR District: 

 

(1) Permitted Uses -- Full-service hotels; conference facilities; spas, swimming pools, tennis courts 

and other outdoor recreational areas and uses; marinas; accessory structures and accessory uses 

normally found in a hospitality development, including, without limitation, food services, gift and 

novelty shops, barber and beauty shops provided primarily for the convenience of visitors or 

patrons of the premises and contained within a principal building, maintenance facilities 

(including laundry and other maintenance facilities); restaurants, nightclubs, bars, taverns, day 

spas; and any of the Permitted Uses allowed in the Limited Commercial Zone (subject to the 

requirements of Paragraph e(3) of Section 6 of this Article), the Mid-Rise Residential Zone, the 

Low-Rise Residential Zone and the Recreation Zone.  

 

(2) Dimensional Standards –  

 

(i) Height.  Building Height not to exceed 55 feet.  

 

(ii) Build-To Lines.  15 foot front; 10 foot rear and 0 foot sides; provided, that there 

is a minimum distance of 10 feet between buildings. 

 

(iii) Minimum Lot Size.  None. 

 

(iv) Parking.  One (1) parking space for each hotel room. 

 

h. Additional Provisions. 

 

(1) The term “Building Height” as used herein shall mean the vertical distance measured from the 

average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of 

the main roof structure of the building (but specifically excluding all other projections or 

articulations from such roof or building). 

 

(2) Access to adjoining properties is not required.   

 

(3) Build-To Lines are measured from the property lines of a lot and allow buildings and structures to 

be built up to the Build-To Lines.  Build-To Lines only apply to buildings/structures with covered 

roof.  Canopies and awnings and second story porches, decks and balconies may overhang any of 

the Build-To Lines by up to 24 inches; provided, however, that in no event shall any such items 

overhang actual lot/property lines.   

 

(4) If any uses within a Development Zone will utilize permitted uses from another Development 

Zone (i.e., if within the Limited Commercial Zone, uses will include single-family uses allowed 



Article V  Section G 
 

Special Districts  TR – Tourism Resort District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  60 

within the Low-Rise Residential Zone), then the dimensional standards for the other Development 

Zone (i.e., the Low-Rise Residential Zone) will be applicable to such use. 

 

7. Private Streets and Adjacent Property Connectivity - An applicant may request that all or any portion of 

the streets and roadways within the TR District property be private streets.  Such request shall be set forth 

in the Application for TR District zoning.  Any request for private streets within any portion of a TR 

District must be approved by the City.  No access to and from the TR District property and any adjoining 

property shall be required. 

 

8. Modification of Subdivision and Other Regulations of City – The TR District zoning classification is 

intended to encourage the development of land as part of a planned community, encourage flexible and 

creative development concepts of site planning, preserve the natural amenities on the land by encouraging 

scenic and functional open space, accomplish a more desirable environment than would be possible through 

the strict application of zoning and subdivision regulations, and provide a stable environmental character 

compatible with surround areas.  Accordingly, the Application may propose provisions which alter, amend 

or otherwise exempt the TR District property or portions thereof from certain provisions of the City’s 

Subdivision Regulations and other regulations.  

 

9. Application Requirements for TR District Zoning – In lieu of any other provisions of the Zoning 

Ordinance, in order to request the zoning of property to a TR District classification, an applicant shall 

submit an application (the “Application”) for TR District zoning to the City, which Application shall 

include the following:   

 

a. Legal Description.  A legal description of the property for which TR District zoning is requested. 

 

b. Zoning Map.  A zoning map which shall reflect the general areas of proposed development by 

Development Zone (established pursuant to Section 6(b) above).  Proposed or existing major roads, if 

known, within the subject property shall be reflected on the zoning map as well as any major arterial 

roads lying adjacent to the property.  The zoning map need not reflect individual lots or blocks or 

streets to be developed within the Development Zones of the TR District property. 

c. Maximum Residential Density.  The maximum number of residential dwelling units (density) 

allowed within the proposed TR District. 

d. Maximum Density Allowed in Limited Commercial Zone.  The maximum gross square footage of 

non-residential floor area allowed within the Limited Commercial Zones of the proposed TR District. 

e. Open Space or Green Space Requirements.  The open space or green space requirements which 

shall apply to the entire TR District Property as a whole (expressed as a percentage of the total acreage 

within the proposed TR District property). 

f. Quantitative Data Regarding Size of Each Development Zone.  Quantitative data indicating the 

approximate acreage within each Development Zone within the proposed TR District property.   

g. Private Streets.  If private streets will be utilized, a general description of which streets will be private 

and whether any gates or other limited access devices will be utilized for such private streets.  The 

Application should also specify who will be responsible for maintaining all private roads or streets 

within the proposed TR District property.  If private streets will be utilized, access easements over such 

private streets will be granted for public emergency vehicles (i.e., police, fire and ambulance), utility 

vehicles (for maintenance and repair and meter reading, etc.), garbage collection vehicles and all other 

governmental vehicles and employees in connection with the performance of their required 

governmental services.  

h. General Description of Restrictive Covenants.  A general description of any proposed restrictive 

covenants to be placed upon the TR District property. 



Article V  Section G 
 

Special Districts  TR – Tourism Resort District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  61 

i. Permitted Uses and Dimensional Standards for Development Zones.  Any permitted uses and 

dimensional standards for any Development Zone which are different from those set forth herein. 

j. Request for Exemptions.  Any requests for an exemption from the provisions and requirements of the 

City’s Subdivision Regulations or any other ordinances or regulations of the City. 

k. Storm Water Management Plan.  A storm water management plan for all of the property within such 

TR District, which storm water management plan shall be implemented by the applicant in the manner 

and in accordance with the requirements set forth in said storm water management plan.  The storm 

water management plan shall comply in all respects with the City’s storm water management 

regulations as set forth in the City’s Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations, subject to any 

exemptions or modifications thereto set forth in the City-approved Application or the storm water 

management plan attached to said Application.  In addition, such storm water management plan must 

satisfy all state and federal regulations and requirements. 

l. Traffic Study.  A traffic study for the property within the TR District, which traffic study and the 

recommendations and requirements set forth therein shall be implemented by the applicant in the 

manner and in accordance with the time table set forth in said traffic study. 

m. Miscellaneous Matters,  The Application shall contain such other terms and provisions as agreed to 

by the developer and the City. 

n. Review and Approval of Application.  Following submission of the Application to the City, the 

Application shall be subject to review and approval by the City in accordance with the terms and 

provisions of Section C(1) of Article II of the Zoning Ordinance.  To the extent set forth as an 

exemption or exception in the Application approved by the City, the provisions of the Application shall 

supersede anything to the contrary set forth in the City’s Zoning Ordinance, Subdivision Regulations 

and any other ordinances or regulations of the City. 

10. Additions to TR District – Additional properties may be added to any TR District at any time and from 

time to time by filing an amendment to the original Application.  Such amendment shall specify the 

Development Zones within the additional property being added to the TR District.  The addition of 

additional property to a TR District must be approved in the manner set forth in Article II of the Zoning 

Ordinance.  To the extent any additional properties are added to any TR District, the City may require 

different development criteria including, without limitation, the requirement that roads and streets be 

public, from those set forth in the original Application for the TR District previously approved by the City. 

 

11. Amendments – Changes or amendments to any Application for TR District zoning shall be processed in 

the same manner as the original request; however, the following changes to an Application may be made 

with the approval of the Director of Planning and Building for the City or any other individual employee of 

the City designated by the City’s Planning and Building Director  to act on his or her behalf:  (a) any 

Development Zone may be shifted, enlarged or reduced by not more than 200 feet in any direction and (b) 

slight changes may be made in the detail of the Application for TR District zoning that do not change the 

intent, meaning, dimensional standards and other major aspects of the Application for TR District zoning 

may be approved by the Director of Planning and Building. 

 

12.  Other Regulations Not Applicable – It is the intent that the Application for TR District zoning set forth 

development criteria applicable to the property and that flexibility be allowed in the construction of 

improvements thereon.  Accordingly, except as set forth in the Application and in this TR District zoning 

classification, no other provisions of the Zoning Ordinance shall be applicable to the property which is 

zoned as a TR District. 

 

13. Building Permits – The developer of the TR District shall proceed with the development of the property in 

accordance with the Application and no further approvals shall be required except as set forth herein.  Upon 

application for a building permit for the construction of improvements on any parcel within the TR District, 

if the City’s Planning and Building Director or any other individual employee of the City designated by the 



Article V  Section G 
 

Special Districts  TR – Tourism Resort District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  62 

City’s Planning and Building Director  to act on his or her behalf shall determine that the intended use of 

the improvements is a “Permitted Use” (as defined in this TR District zoning classification)  and satisfies 

the dimensional standards within the applicable Development Zone of such TR District as set forth in the 

approved Application for such TR District, then a building permit shall be issued for such improvements. 

 
14. Changes to Ordinance – Following the City’s approval of an Application for TR District zoning, no 

subsequently adopted amendments to or modifications of the Zoning Ordinance (including subsequent 

modifications to this TR District zoning classification), no amendments to or modifications of the City’s 

Subdivision Regulations and no other ordinances adopted by the City which alter, change, modify or amend 

any of the matters set forth in this Ordinance or which are set forth in the approved Application for TR 

District zoning shall be effective with respect to the real property described in such approved Application 

for TR District zoning. 

 

15. Utilities – All utility lines within a TR District shall be located underground. 

 

16. Signage – All signage within the TR District shall comply with the City’s signage regulations set forth in the 

Zoning Ordinance in effect as of January 1, 2010. 

 

 

H.  MO-Medical Overlay District 
 
1.  Intent – The intent of the Medical Overlay (MO) District is to establish and provide for the logical expansion 

of medical office needs to accommodate the growing community and region.  Medical uses vary in need and 

impacts on the community.  The MO District is also intended to establish and accommodate highly-

specialized, unique uses and development types related to the medical field and to accommodate additional 

specialized needs and growth of the medical field and community. It is the express intent of this MO district 

surrounding the existing medical center to be as generous as possible in permitted uses while at the same time 

maintaining a clean, attractive community that provides an extension of the medical office needs for medical 

practices and appropriate facilities for the medical community it serves. Property located within the MO 

District is permitted the use allowed by right of the underlying zoning district. The provisions relating to 

nonconformities in Article VII of the Zoning Ordinance shall apply to all properties within this MO District.  

 

2. Location – By virtue of its location to an existing medical center (Thomas Hospital), it is intended that this 

district be allowed for future expansion to the following boundaries:  North to parcels abutting the south side 

of Morphy Avenue, South to those parcels that are in the City of Fairhope abutting the north side of Greeno 

Lane, East to parcels abutting the west side of Greeno Road, and West to parcels abutting the east side of 

South Ingleside Street.  

 

3.  District Classification – The following overlay district is hereby established:  Medical Overlay District-MO.  

Uses and standards allowed in this district shall be as follows: 

 

A.  Permitted Uses: The following uses and structures are permitted in this district: 

(1) Medical offices 

(2) Hospitals and nursing homes 

(3) Medical and dental clinics 

(4) Laboratories for medical and dental uses 

(5) Funeral homes 

(6) Animal hospitals, provided the boarding of animals occurs in completely enclosed buildings 

(7) Child and adult day care facilities and group home facilities 

(8) Adult congregate living facilities 

(9) Helistop in conjunction with hospitals 

(10) Emergency services 

(11) Parking structures 

(12) Colleges and universities



Article V  Section H. 
 

Special Districts  Medical Overlay District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  63 

(13) Vocational, trade or business schools with all associated uses including dormitory facilities related to 

the medical field 

(14) Essential services 

(15) Hospital related out-patient services (Ambulatory Surgery and Diagnostic Clinics) 

(16) Independent Living Facilities 

(17) Bed and Breakfast Facilities to accommodate families of patients 

(18) Retail business which sell, lease and repair prosthetic or ambulatory devices used for patient 

rehabilitation, mobility or installation/modification of handicap unique support aids 

(19) Places of Worship 

(20) Mixed use with residential – The residential use shall make up at least 33% of the total area of the 

building and be located on the upper floors only.  

 

B.  Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures. 

(1) Uses and structures which are customarily incidental and subordinate to permitted uses 

(2) Such other uses as determined by the Zoning Official or his/her designee to be: 

a. Appropriate by reasonable implication and intent of the district 

b. Similar to another use either explicitly permitted in that district or allowed by special exception. 

 
C.  Uses Permitted Subject to Appeal and with Conditions. 

(1) Commercial communication towers 

(2) Detoxification centers and substance abuse centers associated primarily with the primary medical 

facility 

(3) Retail, restaurant, personal services, branch banks, offices, conference facilities, clinics and similar 

workplace support uses when within any individual structure, gross floor area shall be limited to 10 

percent of the total gross floor area 

(4) Crematorium  

   

D.  Prohibited Uses and Structures. 

(1) Any use or structure not specially, provisionally or by reasonable implication permitted herein. 

(2) Automotive repair garages, pool halls and game rooms 

(3) Gasoline or diesel filling stations shall not be located within 100 feet from in-patient care or treatment 

facilities  

 

E.  General Requirements. 

Buildings shall comply with the following provisions: 

(1) Buildings shall comply with all applicable Site Design Standards in Article IV of the Zoning Ordinance 

and all other applicable City regulations and review standards not specified in this section. 

(2) Mixed-use buildings shall be vertically mixed in use. Retail uses shall be placed at street level. 

 

F.  Special Exceptions. 

(1) Research and development 

(2) Hotel 

(3) Crematoria 

(4) And any such other uses as deemed appropriate in the district by the Planning Commission.  The 

Planning Commission shall review a proposed use at the time the special exception application is 

presented to the Planning Commission according to the submittal deadlines and meeting dates 

established by the Planning Commission.  

 

G.  Development Standards. 

(1) The B-4 (Business and Professional District) development standards and area and dimensional 

requirements shall apply in this district: 

(2) Any residential, hotel, dormitory, nursing home or convalescent use shall not exceed the density 

established for the R-5 (High Density Multi-Family Residential District) at a minimum lot area of 

10,500 square feet for two dwelling units plus 4,100 square feet for each additional unit / 10 units per 

acre maximum.  



Article V  Section H. 
 

Special Districts  Medical Overlay District 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE  64 

(3) No building or portion of a building visible from a public street or right of way shall be exposed metal.  

A façade of some type or material shall be used to visually screen the metal from the public street or 

right of way.   

 

I.  HTD – Highway Transitional District 
 
1.  Intent – The special standards listed in this section for the highway transitional district are intended to: 

• Provide an alternative to properties along state highways within the City of Fairhope that are beyond the area 

of influence of the Village Nodes and Commercial Nodes as contemplated by the City of Fairhope 

Comprehensive Plan. 

• Provide development opportunities consistent with the City’s vision for commercial corridors to better serve 

community needs.  

• Unlike other districts within this section, the HTD is not an overlay district and does not affect any property 

owners, other than those who voluntarily apply for rezoning to this district. 

 

2. Size – Lots shall be a minimum of 20,000 s.f. and under 3 acres.  

 

3. Use – Uses for the HTD are listed in Table 3-1: Use Table.  Rezoning to HTD may be conditioned so that uses 

permitted on appeal require a site plan.   

 

4. Location – Eligible lots must have minimum of 100 feet on one side fronting the rights-of-way of U.S Highway 

98, Alabama Highway 104, or Alabama Highway 181 and lie within the Corporate Jurisdiction of the City of 

Fairhope. 

 

5. Dimension Standards –  

a. Lot frontage shall be adjacent to the highway. 

b. Setbacks 

i.Front Setback shall be 20’. 

ii.Rear Setback shall be 20’. 

iii.Side setbacks shall be 10’. 

c. Building Height  

i. Maximum Height is 30’. 

ii. A mixed-use building may have a height of 35’ if it contains both residential and commercial space.  

The residential us must make up at least 33% of the total area of the building and the located on the 

second and/or third floor, and retail or office space must make up at least 50% of the total area of the 

building and be located on ground and/or second floor.  

d. Parking 

i.Parking shall be located behind the front building line.  

e. Any freestanding single-use or tenant retail building shall not have a building footprint larger than 8,000 

square feet. 

f. All lands within twenty (20) feet of the boundaries of U.S. Highway 98, Alabama Highway 104, and 

Alabama Highway 181 within the corporate limits of the City of Fairhope are required to be reserved by 

owners or developers of such lands as greenspace and tree protection zones. The required greenspace may 

include land as required by the front setback.  

i. Where no vegetation, other than grass exists, new landscaping and plantings shall be installed at time 

of development within the 20-foot strip that meet the requirements of the City of Fairhope Tree 

Ordinance and receives approval by the City Horticulturist; otherwise the land may be left in its natural 

state and enhanced with the addition of trees and shrubs. 

g. Any future rezoning to HTD may be conditioned so that the goals and intent of the Comprehensive Plan and 

Article V., Section I.1. of the Zoning Ordinance are achieved. 

h. For the purposes of Article IV, Section B.2.b. and the screening requirements of the City of Fairhope Tree 

Ordinance, the Highway Transitional District shall be considered commercial/business regardless of use.  

 



Article VI  Section A 
 

Village Districts  VRM Village Residential Mix 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 64  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article VI 

 

Village Districts 

 
A. VRM – Village Residential Mix 

B. NVC – Neighborhood Village Center 

C. CVC – Community Village Center 

D. Village Zoning Special Review Procedures 

 

 

 
This Article contains Village Zoning Districts to more easily and more directly implement the vision and goals of 

the Fairhope Comprehensive Plan. 

 

A. VRM – Village Residential Mix 
 

1. Intent – The special standards listed in this section for the Village Residential Mix district are intended to:  

• provide a mix of residential types that are designed to form a compact, compatible, and stable 

neighborhood; 

• provide compact, walkable neighborhoods; 

• provide development that supports the scale and character of existing neighborhoods; 

• develop land use arrangements that consider the compatibility of adjacent activities; 

• encourage design that enhances pedestrian interest and provides a pleasant and diverse pedestrian 

experience; 

• provide places for social interaction and recreation; 

• promote a sustainable future, and encourage and develop connections between environmental quality and 

economic vitality; 

• create focal points in neighborhoods, such as parks, schools, parkways, street trees, and other amenities;  

• support the development of artistic, cultural and recreational opportunities; establish and maintain 

neighborhoods with a sense of community and ties to neighborhood-based businesses; 

• coordinate land use and transportation planning to ensure that the transportation system can accommodate 

potential travel demand; 

• support the development of a comprehensive pedestrian and bicycle network with linkages to and between 

residential and commercial areas. 

 

2. Location, Size and Density – A newly established VRM district shall be at least five acres.  However, a 

smaller parcel may be rezoned VRM if it is contiguous to an existing VRM district or separated only by a public 

right-of-way, and all other standards and conditions for the VRM district as a whole are met.  The overall gross 

density for a Village Residential Mix district shall be between 4.5 and 10 dwelling units per acre, subject to the 

following: 

a. VRM districts between 4.5 and 6 dwelling units per acre shall provide at least 10% of the overall district as 

open space. 

b. VRM districts greater than 6 but less than 8 dwelling units per acre shall provide at least 15% of the overall 

district as open space. 

c. VRM district with 8 to 10 dwelling units per acre shall provide at least 20% of the overall district as open 

space. 

d. Accessory dwelling units shall not count towards density requirements provided: 



Article VI  Section A 
 

Village Districts  VRM Village Residential Mix 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 65  

 

(1) accessory dwelling units shall have a maximum floor area of 750 square feet; and 

(2) the owner of the lot shall be a resident of the primary dwelling unit or the accessory dwelling unit at all 

times. 

 

3. Uses – Uses allowed in the VRM district are specified in Article III, Section B.  A VRM district shall have at 

least 3 different types of dwellings in Table 3-1: Use Table subject to the following: 

a. no more than 50% of the dwellings for the entire district may be of any one type listed in the use table; 

b. no more than 70% of the dwellings for the entire district may be of any two types listed in the use table; 

and 

c. at least 70% of the dwellings shall be within 1,980 feet of an intersection of two arterial streets. This 

distance shall be measured along public right-of-way or a public trail or greenway. (See Fairhope 

Subdivision Regulations for location and standards for arterial streets.) 

d. Accessory dwelling units shall not count towards the requirements of this section. 

 

4. Dimension Standards  

 

Table 5-1 : VRM Dimension Table  

Dimension 

Standard 

 

 

 

 

Use type 

  M
in

im
u

m
 l

o
t 

w
id

th
 Frontage Types Allowed 

See Article IV., Section C. for design 
standards related to frontage types. 

Minimum Setback Maximum Lot Coverage or 

Structure Size 

Y
a

r
d

 

T
e
rr

a
c
e 

C
o

u
r
ty

a
r
d

 

S
to

o
p

 

S
tr

e
e
t 

fr
o

n
t 

S
id

e 

 

  
S

tr
ee

t 
si

d
e
  

R
e
a

r 

P
r
in

ci
p

le
 

S
tr

u
c
tu

r
e 

 A
c
c
e
ss

o
ry

 

S
tr

u
c
tu

r
e 

T
o

ta
l 

Im
p

er
v

io
u

s 

M
a

x
. 
B

u
il

d
in

g
s 

H
ei

g
h

t 

Dwellings 
Estate 100’ with a 

minimum total lot 
area of ½  acre 

✓     20’ 

 

e 30’ 20% d 40% 35’ 

Single family 40’ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  6’ e 30’ 40% 700 s.f. 65% 35’ 
Two-family 50’ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  6’ a e 30’ 40% 600 s.f. 65% 35’ 
Patio home 40’ ✓ ✓    0’ b e 30’ 50% 600 s.f. 65% 20’ 
Townhouse  24’ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 0’ c e 30’ 60% 300 s.f. 75% 35’ 
Multiple-family 

/ apartment 
50’  ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 10’ e 30’ 65% 300 s.f. 75% 35’ 

Civic 
Elementary 
School 

280’ with a 

minimum total lot 

size of 2 acres 

✓     50’ 50’ 50’ 50% n/a 60% 35’ 

Place of 

Worship 
140’ with a 

minimum lot size 
of 1 acre 

✓ ✓    30’ 30’ 50’ 50% n/a 70% 35’ f 

Community 

Center 
100’ with a 

minimum lot size 

of ½ acre 

✓ ✓    20’ 20’ 30’ 50% n/a 70% 35’ 

Service 
Bed and 
Breakfast 

Bed and breakfast is a service use allowed in any dwelling structure in the VRM district.  Dimensional standards shall be according to 
the dwelling structure type. 

 

a.   Single family attached may have one side of the structure with a 0’ setback to allow each unit in a structure to be a separate lot. 
b.   Patio homes may have one side of the structure with a 0’ setback provided the other setback is at least 10’.  Otherwise, the minimum side 

setback shall be 6’. 

c.    Townhouses may have a 0’ side setback to allow each individual unit in a structure to be a separate lot.  However, no more than 8 units may 
be in a single structure, and all structures shall be separated by at least 12’. 

d.    Accessory structures on estate dwelling lots shall cover a maximum of 10% of the lot or be a maximum of 25% of the principle building 

footprint, whichever is less. 
e. Side yards along a public right-of-way shall have the same setback for the principal structure as the front setback, except that the required 

street side setback in all cases shall never be more than 20’. 

f. Steeples or other architectural features on Places of Worship may be up to 50’. 



Article VI  Section A 
 

Village Districts  VRM Village Residential Mix 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 66  

 

 

 

5. Site Design Standards – General site design standards contained in Article IV. apply to the VRM district in 

addition to the following specific site design standards. 

 

a Open space: Refer to Article IV., Section A. for general open space design standards.  The following 

additional open space standards apply in the VRM district: 

(1) At least 80% of the dwellings should be within one mile of three different types of open space. 

(2) At least 80% of the residential units should be within one mile from each category (natural and civic) 

of open space  

(3) At least 80% of the residential units should be within 1980 feet of 1 or more types of open space. 

(4)  Off-site open space may count towards the requirements of this section if it is publicly accessible. 

(5) Accessory dwelling units shall not count towards the dwelling unit percentage recommendations of 

this section. 

(6) Distance shall be measured along public right-of-way or public trail or greenway. 

 

 

 

b. Streetscape:  Refer to Article IV., Section 

C. for general streetscape design 

standards.  The following additional 

streetscape standards apply in the VRM 

district: 

(1) The average building line on opposite 

sides of the street shall not differ by 

more than 20 feet.  

(2) The building line on an individual lot 

shall not differ by more than five feet 

from the building line of adjacent 

lots.   See Figure 6-1. 

(3) The building line on an individual lot 

shall not differ by more than five feet 

from the average building line on the 

same side of a single block.  

(4) No more than two frontage types may 

be used on the same side of a single 

block.  See Figure 6-1. 

(5) The preferred height to width ratio for 

the streetscape (height of buildings: 

distance between facades on opposite 

sides of street) should be between 1:2 

and 1:4, except in the case of single-

family dwellings on arterial streets 

where a larger setback may create an 

appropriate transition for single-family 

Commentary 

 

See Article IV., Section C. for a description, intent and goals of the streetscape.  A defined streetscape is 

created by a ratio of height to width formed by buildings on opposite sides of the street.  The width 

includes the width of the right-of-way and the depth of any private setback to the building façade.  The 

height equals the average height of buildings along a block, or the height of the primary façade to any 

substantially recessed areas.  See Figure 6-3 for diagrams relating to the streetscape and the proper ratio 

of height to width. 

Figure 6-1.  This figure illustrates two different frontage types 

– a terrace and a yard – while still maintaining consistent 

setbacks (no greater deviation than 5 feet) on adjacent lots. 



Article VI  Section A 
 

Village Districts  VRM Village Residential Mix 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 67  

 

dwelling units on higher-order streets.  See Figure 6-2 

(6) This section shall not apply to estate dwelling units or civic uses. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c. Site Access:  Refer to Article IV., Section D. for general 

site access standards.  The following additional site 

access standards apply in the VRM district: 

(1) Curb cuts on local streets shall be separated by a 

minimum of 60 feet. 

(2) Shared access driveways or rear access lanes shall 

be used on blocks with residential lots less than 60 

feet wide.  Shared access driveways require an 

easement to each lot owner indicated on the plat and 

recorded or granted by a separate deed instrument.  

See Figure 6-3.   

 

d. Parking: Refer to Article IV., Section E. for general 

parking standards.  The following additional parking 

standards apply in the VRM district: 

(1) The maximum size of an off-street parking area 

for any use in the NVM district is 40 spaces. 

(2) All off-street parking in the NVM district shall be 

on the same lot as the use the parking serves, or on 

dedicated common area for a group of lots.  Any 

parking on common areas shall be within 100 feet 

of the structure it is to serve 

(3) On-street parking may be used towards required 

parking according to Article IV., Section E. 

(4) All off-street parking areas shall be located behind 

buildings, except for estate dwelling units and 

single-family detached dwelling units. 

(5) All off-street parking shall be screened from 

adjacent lots according to Article IV., Section E.  

Figure 6-2.  This figure illustrates the ideal ratio of building heights that frame the streetscape to the total 

width of the streetscape area.   Streetscapes closer to the 2:1 end of this range should be used as transitions 

near village centers. 

Figure 6-3.  Rear access lanes or shared driveways 

shall be used on all lots less than 60 feet wide. 

Commentary 

 

Vehicular access on individual lots interrupts the pedestrian area of the streetscape.  This conflict is 

exaggerated when accessing smaller compact lots.  Therefore alternative vehicular access must be used 

when lots are narrow.  

Rear access lanes 

Shared driveways 



Article VI  Section A 
 

Village Districts  VRM Village Residential Mix 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 68  

 

e. Building Design: The following building design standards apply 

in the VRM district: 

(1) All structures shall have a primary entrance that faces the 

street. 

(2) All primary entrances, except for estate dwelling units, shall 

be connected to the public right-of-way by a sidewalk at least 

four feet wide, or by a similar pedestrian connection. 

(3) Garages shall be subject to the following: 

(a) Detached garages may be located behind the rear 

building line subject to dimension standards for the 

district. 

(b) Front entry garages shall be set back a minimum of 

20 feet from the front building line containing the 

primary entrance.  See Figure 6-4. 

(c) The portion of the facade used for front-entry garages 

shall be less than 50% of the reaming portion of the front 

facade producing at least a 2:1 ratio of living space to 

garage space on front facades. 

(d) Any front entry garage door shall be for a single vehicle.  

Multiple car front-entry garages shall require multiple 

single-entry doors.  See Figure 6-5 

 

f. Design Guidelines: The following design elements are 

recommended in the VRM district: 

(1)  Roofs - Pitched roofs are preferred.   Buildings with a flat 

roof should incorporate a parapet or decorative cornice 

line. 

(2)  Scale – Buildings should not exceed a height to width 

ratio of 1 to 2 without a variation in the building mass to 

break up the scale.  Variations in building mass could 

include a setback in the facade between 18 inches and 3 

feet.  Any such variation should occur over at least 25% 

of the entire facade.  See Figure 6-6. 

(3)   Architectural Style – the architectural style and materials 

should be compatible on all sides of a building. 

(4) Entrances - All primary entrances should be 

articulated by any of the following design elements: 

(a) A single story porch at least eight feet deep and 

covering at least 50% of the facade; 

(b) A single story portico at least six feet deep and at 

least eight feet wide. 

(c) A stoop entry if a stoop frontage is used.  

(5) Openings – Window and door openings should be 

vertically oriented, however windows and doors should 

be grouped to have a similar orientation as the structure. 

All front facades should have between 15% and 30% of 

the façade occupied by windows or doors.   

 See Figure 6-7 

(6) Diversity - Buildings should present diverse but 

consistent appearances.  Consistency will be determined 

by the scale and mass of structures and diversity will be 

determined by variation of facade planes, roof lines, 

materials and colors used for external walls and trim.  

All materials should be consistent with the overall 

character of the neighborhood. 

 

Figure 6-5.  Only single entry doors are allowed if 

the garage is front loaded and facing the street. 

Figure 6-7. All openings should be vertically 

oriented to reflect a pedestrian scale but may be 

grouped to form larger horizontal masses.  

Window and door openings provide contrast to 

the main wall and should occupy between 15% 

to 30% of the facade. 

Figure 6-6.  Building facades that exceed a 

2:1 width to height ratio must contain 

variations in wall planes. 

Figure 6-4.  Any front entry garage doors shall be 

set back at least 20 feet from the front building line 

where the primary entry of the house is located. 



Article VI  Section B 
 

Village Districts  NVC Neighborhood Village Center 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 69  

 

 

B. NVC – Neighborhood Village Center 
 

1. Intent – The special standards listed in this section for the Neighborhood Village Center district are intended to: 

• provide convenience goods and personal services within an approximately 1-mile service radius; 

• provide compact, walkable centers for neighborhoods; 

• provide development that supports the scale and character of existing neighborhoods; 

• develop land use arrangements that consider the compatibility of adjacent activities; 

• encourage design that enhances pedestrian interest and provides a pleasant and diverse pedestrian 

experience; 

• provide places for social interaction and recreation; 

• promote a sustainable future, and encourage and develop connections between environmental quality and 

economic vitality; 

• create focal points in neighborhoods, such as parks, schools, parkways, street trees, and other amenities;  

• support the development of artistic, cultural and recreational opportunities; establish and maintain 

neighborhoods with a sense of community and ties to neighborhood-based businesses; 

• coordinate land use and transportation planning to ensure that the transportation system can accommodate 

potential travel demand; 

• support the development of a comprehensive pedestrian and bicycle network with linkages to and between 

residential and commercial areas. 

 

2.  Locations and Size  

a. A newly established NVC district shall be between six and 18 acres.  However, a smaller parcel may be 

rezoned NVC if it is contiguous to an existing NVC district or separated only by a public right-of-way, so 

long as the combined NVC district does not exceed 18 acres.   

b. The NVC district shall have an overall non-residential floor area between 60,000 and 180,000 square feet.  

Residential uses do not count toward in this total.   

c. Open requirements shall be as follows: 

(1) A NVC district shall provide at least 5% of the area, excluding right-of-way, as open space. 

(2) A NVC with more than 120,000 square feet of non-residential floor area shall provide at least 10% of 

the area, excluding right-of-way, as open space. 

(3) A NVC with more than 12 overall acres shall provide at least 15% of the area, excluding right-of-way, 

as open space. 

d. The NVC district shall be located on blocks at the intersection of two arterial streets, and on blocks 

immediately adjacent to a block at the intersection of two arterial streets, which is zoned NVC district. 

 

3. Uses – Uses allowed in the NVC district are specified in Article III, Section B.  A NVC district shall have at 

least three different categories of uses in Table 3-1: Use Table, subject to the following: 

a. Mixed-use buildings shall be allowed and encouraged.  

b. Residential units 

(1) Dwelling units, which are accessory to a non-residential use, shall have a maximum floor area of 750 

square feet. The resident of the accessory dwelling shall be the owner of the principle structure or the 

tenant operating the non-residential use in the principal structure. 

(2) Dwelling units as a principal use or in mixed-use structures shall be subject to the following: 

(a) all dwelling units shall have an individual entrance or common entrance that is separate from 

entrances for non-residential uses. 

(b)  each dwelling unit shall have at least one off-street parking space within 100 feet of the residential 

entrance. 

c. Drive-through uses are allowed only if the drive through lanes is limited to the rear and one side of the 

building and all other special conditions for the NVC district are met. 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Article VI  Section B 
 

Village Districts  NVC Neighborhood Village Center 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 70  

 

4. Dimension Standards  

 

Table 5-2: NVC Dimension Table  

Dimension 

Standard 

 

 

 

 

Use type   L
o

t 
w

id
th

 
Frontage Types Allowed 

See Article IV., Section C. regarding 

design standards for frontage types. 

Minimum Setback Maximum Lot Coverage  

or Structure Size 

Y
a

r
d

 

T
e
rr

a
c
e 

C
o

u
r
ty

a
r
d

 

S
to

o
p

 

S
tr

e
e
t 

fr
o

n
t 

S
id

e 

  
 S

tr
e
e
t 

si
d

e 

 

R
e
a

r 

P
r
in

ci
p

le
 

S
tr

u
c
tu

r
e 

A
c
c
e
ss

o
ry

 

S
tr

u
c
tu

r
e 

P
a

r
k

in
g
 a

n
d

 

D
r
iv

e
w

a
y
 

T
o

ta
l 

Im
p

er
v

io
u

s 

 

  
M

a
x

. 
B

u
il

d
in

g
 

  
H

ei
g

h
t 

  
 

Dwellings 
Townhouse  24’  to 

30’ 

✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 0’a b 30’ 65% 300 s.f. 30% 80% 35’ 

Multiple-family 

/ Apartment 
25’ to 

150’ 

  ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 0’ to 

10’ 

b 30’ 70% 300 s.f. 30% 80% 35’ 

Mixed-use Same as nonresidential lots and structures 

Non-residential 
All uses from 

the Civic, 
Retail, Service, 

and Office 

categories 

none 

specified 

c    ✓   ✓ none b 15’ 85% not 

allowed 

50% 85% 35’ 

a  Townhouses may have a 0’ side setback to allow each individual unit in a structure to be a separate lot.  However, no more than 8 units may 

be in a single structure, and all structures shall be separated by at least 12’. 

b Side setbacks along right-of-ways shall be the same as the front building line. 
c The only non-residential uses that permit a yard frontage in the NVC district are uses from the Civic category. 

 

 

5. Site Design Standards – General site design standards contained in Article IV. apply to the NVC district in 

addition to the following specific site design standards. 

 

a. Open space:  Refer to Article IV., Section A. for 

general open space design standards.  The 

following additional open space standards apply 

in the NVC district: 

 (1) Each block shall contain a courtyard(s) or 

plaza(s) covering at least 5% of the block, 

bordering a public right-of-way on its longest 

side.  See Figure 6-7. 

 (2) Blocks that border on a block with a green, 

plaza, or small park covering at least 40% of 

the block and bordering a public right-of-way 

on at least 2 sides are exempt from Section 

5.a.(1) above.  See Figure 6-8.   

(3) Blocks that border or contain a greenway 

connecting the non-residential center of the 

village to surrounding neighborhoods are 

exempt from Section 5.a.(1) and (2) above.  

See Figure 6-8. 

(4) The overall area of open space shall meet 

the requirements of  Section B.2.b. above 

and be designed according to the guidelines 

of Article IV., Section A.  

 

b. Streetscape: Refer to Article IV., Section C. for 

general streetscape design standards.  The 

Figure 6-8. Blocks bordering a block with a green or a plaza 

covering at least 40% of that block or blocks that provide 

parts of a trail or greenway system are not required to provide 

5% of the block as publicly accessible open space. 

Figure 6-7. All blocks shall have at least 5% of the 

block publicly accessible open space such as courtyards 

or plazas. 

Courtyard Plaza 



Article VI  Section B 
 

Village Districts  NVC Neighborhood Village Center 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 71  

 

following additional streetscape standards apply in 

the NVC district: 

(1) The average building line on opposite sides of 

the street shall not differ by more than 20 feet.  

(2) The building line on an individual lot shall not 

differ by more than 5 feet from the building line 

of adjacent lots, except that courtyards and 

plazas created by setbacks that exceed five feet 

are encouraged.  See Figure 6-9. 

(3) No more than two frontage types may be used 

on the same side of a single block.  

(4) The preferred streetscape width to building 

height ratio should be between 1:1 and 3:1.  

See Figure 6-10.  

(5) This section shall not apply to structures for 

Civic uses. 

 

c. Site Access:  Site access shall be according to Article V. of the Fairhope Subdivision Regulations. 

 

d. Parking:  Refer to Article IV., Section E. for general parking standards.  The following additional parking 

standards apply in the NVC district: 

(1) All off-street parking shall be located behind 

the front building line, and parking not located 

behind the rear building line shall be screened 

from the right-of-way by a two and one-half to 

four foot wall or opaque landscape screen 

extended at the front building line.  See Figure 

6-11. 

(2)  The maximum size of an off-street parking 

area for any use or group of uses is 50 spaces.  

No block shall have more than 30% of the area 

dedicated to off-street parking. 

(3) No parking lots shall be located on the corner of 

blocks. 

(4) Parking totals shall be based on the parking 

schedule in Article IV., Section E. for all uses 

proposed in the NVC district.  Reductions in the 

required parking may be made from that 

cumulative total according to the standards of that section. 

 

Figure 6-10. This figure illustrates the ideal ratio of building heights that frame the streetscape to the total 

width of the streetscape area.   Streetscapes closer to the 1:1 end of this range should be used only on 

secondary streets in the village centers. 

Figure 6-9.   Adjacent buildings, whether separated or 

connected common walls should not differ in front setback by 

more than 5 feet except for the purposes of forming a courtyard. 

Figure 6-11.  Any parking on the sides of buildings near the 

public street shall be screened with a decorative fence or 

wall or landscape screen extended at the building line to 

continue the street wall formed by the building line. 



Article VI  Section B 
 

Village Districts  NVC Neighborhood Village Center 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 72  

 

e. Building Design:  The following building design 

standards apply in the NVC district: 

(1) All non-residential or mixed-use structures, 

except for civic uses, shall have a front 

building facade that occupies at least 75% of 

the lot width at the front building line. See 

Figure 6-12.   

(2) All buildings shall have a primary entrance 

that faces the street. 

(3) All primary entrances shall be connected to the 

public right-of-way by a sidewalk at least 5 

feet wide. 

(4) Between 50% and 80% of ground level, street-

facing facades of non-residential buildings 

shall be transparent with glazing.  

 See Figure 6-13.   

(5) Between 25% to 60% of all street-facing facades 

and upper floor front facades shall be 

transparent with glazing.  See Figure 6-13. 

 

f. Design Guidelines:  The following design elements 

are recommended in the NVC district: 

(1)  Uses – The majority of ground level uses should 

be from the Retail category.  Service and Civic 

uses are also acceptable on ground levels 

provided they are not more than 50% of the 

gross floor area.  Office or Residential uses may 

be appropriate on ground levels in limited 

circumstances, but should generally be on upper 

levels of buildings. 

(2) Roofs – Roofs should be either pitched between 

6:12 and 12:12 or be flat with parapets or 

decorative cornices.  Roof mounted equipment 

should be screened from public view on all sides. 

(3)  Scale – Buildings should not exceed a height to 

width ratio of 1:3 without a variation in the 

building mass to break up the scale.  Variations in 

building mass could include an offset in the 

building height between 10% and 15%, or a 

setback in the facade between three and six feet.  

Any such variation should occur over at least 25% 

of the entire facade.  See Figure 6-14.  

(4)   Architectural Style – All buildings should include a 

base, body, and crown.  Transitions between these 

areas should occur at floor changes or at the cornice 

line of the roof.  Transitions should be created by 

material or color changes or the use of ornamental 

features.  The architectural style and materials 

should be consistent on all sides of a building. 

(5) Building Height – Building heights should not differ 

by more than 15% on a single block, except that 

taller buildings that anchor a corner may not be 

considered in calculating the block average. See 

Figure 6-15.  

Figure 6-12.  Building facades shall occupy at least 

75% of the lot frontage at the front building line. 

Figure 6-13.  Ground level facades between 50% and 

80% transparency, and upper level facades between 

25% and 60% transparency. 

Figure 6-14.  Long building facades should use variations 

in building mass while still presenting a consistent 

streetscape. 

Figure 6-15.  Height deviations buildings along a single 

block should be small except that taller buildings may 

anchor corners of blocks. 



Article VI  Section B 
 

Village Districts  NVC Neighborhood Village Center 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 73  

 

(6) Entrances – All primary entrances 

should be articulated by any of the 

following design elements: 

(a) a canopy or arcade; See Figure 

6-16a. 

(b) an entrance projecting from the 

façade no more than 3 feet; See 

Figure 6-16b. 

(c) an entrance recessed from the 

front façade between 3 and 5 

feet; See Figure 6-16c. 

(d) a combination of ornamental 

architectural molding and 

windows such as transom 

windows. See Figure 6-16a. 

(7) Openings – Window and door 

openings should be vertically 

oriented, however windows and 

doors should be grouped to have a 

similar orientation as the structure. 

Building entrances should occur a 

minimum of every 50 feet along 

street frontages. See Figure 6-17. 

(8) Diversity – Buildings should present 

diverse but consistent appearances.  

Changes in material, color or relief 

areas are acceptable when used as 

accents to the primary materials, 

color, and wall.  Use of visual 

features such as awnings, ornamental 

doors and windows, and architectural 

details are encouraged to create 

diversity. 

 

 

c.  Recessed Entry 

a.  Canopy or Arcade Entry 

d.  Ornamental Entry 

b.  Projecting Entry 

Figure 6-17.  Building entrances should occur at least every 50 

feet. 

Figure 6-16 a-d.  Demonstrates the different types of entry treatments 

that help add variety and animation to buildings along the streetscape. 



Article VI  Section C 
 

Village Districts  CVC Community Village Center 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 74  

 

C. CVC – Community Village Center 

 
1. Intent – The special standards listed in this section for the Community Village Center district are intended to: 

• provide general merchandise and convenience destinations for residents within a two to three-plus mile 

service radius; 

• to provide services and merchandise that complement the central business district; 

• provide compact, walkable centers for neighborhoods; 

• provide development that supports the scale and character of existing neighborhoods; 

• develop land use arrangements that consider the compatibility of adjacent activities; 

• encourage design that enhances pedestrian interest and provides a pleasant and diverse pedestrian 

experience; 

• provide places for social interaction and recreation; 

• promote a sustainable future, and encourage and develop connections between environmental quality and 

economic vitality; 

• create focal points in neighborhoods, such as parks, schools, parkways, street trees, and other amenities;  

• support the development of artistic, cultural and recreational opportunities; establish and maintain 

neighborhoods with a sense of community and ties to neighborhood-based businesses; 

• coordinate land use and transportation planning to ensure that the transportation system can accommodate 

potential travel demand; 

• support the development of a comprehensive pedestrian and bicycle network with linkages to and between 

residential and commercial areas. 

 

2.  Locations and Size    

a. A newly established CVC district shall be between 10 and 40 acres.  However, a smaller parcel may be 

rezoned CVC if it is contiguous to an existing CVC district or separated only by a public right-of-way, 

provided that the combined CVC district does not exceed 40 acres. 

b. The CVC district shall have an overall non-residential floor area between 100,000 and 350,000 square feet.  

Residential uses do not count toward in this total.   

c.  Open space requirements shall be as follows: 

(1) A CVC district shall provide at least 10% of the area, excluding right-of-way, as open space. 

(2) A CVC district with more than 200,000 square feet of non-residential floor area shall provide at least 

15% of the area, excluding right-of-way, as open space. 

(3) A CVC district with more than 20 overall acres shall provide at least 15% of the area, excluding right-

of-way, as open space. 

d. The CVC district shall be located on blocks at the intersection of two arterial streets capable of handling 

heavy traffic, and on blocks within 800 feet of the intersection of two arterial streets that are adjacent to 

blocks zoned for a CVC District.  

 

3. Uses – Uses allowed in the CVC district are specified in Article III, Section B.  A CVC district shall have at 

least three different categories of uses subject to the following: 

a. Mixed-use buildings shall be allowed and encouraged.  

b. Residential units 

(1) Dwelling units, which are accessory to a non-residential use, shall have a maximum floor area of 750 

square feet. The resident of the accessory dwelling shall be the owner of the principle structure or the 

tenant operating the non-residential use in the principal structure. 

(2) Dwelling units as a principal use or in a mixed-use structure shall be subject to the following: 

(a) all dwelling units shall have an individual entrance or common entrance that is separate from 

entrances for non-residential uses. 

(b)  each dwelling unit shall have at least one off-street parking space within 100 feet of the residential 

entrance. 

c. Drive-through uses are allowed only if the drive through lanes is limited to the rear and one side of the 

building and all other special conditions for the CVC district are met. 

 

4. Dimension Standards – The dimension standards for the CVC district are the same as the NVC – see Table 5-2 

in Section B.4. 
 



Article VI  Section C 
 

Village Districts  CVC Community Village Center 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 75  

 

5. Site Design Conditions – General site design standards contained in Article IV. apply to the CVC district in 

addition to the following specific site design standards. 

 

a. Open space:  Refer to Article IV., Section A. for 

general open space design standards.  The following 

additional open space standards apply in the CVC 

district: 

(1) Each block shall contain a courtyard(s) or 

plaza(s) covering at least 5% of the block, 

bordering a public right-of-way on its longest 

side. See Figure 6-18.    

(2) Blocks that border on a block with a green, 

plaza, or small park covering at least 40% of 

the block and bordering a public right-of-way 

on at least 2 sides are exempt from Section 

5.a.(1) above.  See Figure 6-19.   

(3) Blocks that border or contain a greenway 

connecting the non-residential center of 

the village to surrounding neighborhoods 

are exempt from Section 5.a.(1) and (2) 

above.  See Figure 6-19. 

(4) The overall area of open space shall meet 

the requirements of Section C.2.b. above 

and be designed according to the guidelines 

of Article IV., Section A. 

 

b. Streetscape:  Refer to Article IV., Section C. 

for general streetscape design standards.  The 

following additional streetscape standards apply in 

the CVC district:  

(1) The average building line on opposite sides of 

the street shall not differ by more than 20 feet.  

(2) The building line on an individual lot shall not 

differ by more than 5 feet from the building line 

of adjacent lots, except that courtyards and 

plazas created by setbacks that exceed 5 feet are 

encouraged.  See Figure 6-20. 

(3) No more than two frontage types may be used 

on the same side of a single block.  

(4) The preferred streetscape width to building 

height ratio should be between 1:1 and 3:1.  See 

Figure 6-21. 

(5) This section shall not apply to structures for Civic uses. 

 

Figure 6-19. Blocks bordering a block with a green or a plaza 

covering at least 40% of that block or blocks that provide 

parts of a trail or greenway system are not required to provide 

5% of the block as publicly accessible open space. 

Figure 6-18. All blocks shall have at least 5% of the block 

publicly accessible open space such as courtyards or plazas. 

Courtyard Plaza 

Figure 6-20.   Adjacent buildings, whether separated or 

connected by common walls, should not differ in front setback by 

more than 5 feet except for the purposes of forming a courtyard. 

Figure 6-21. This figure illustrates the ideal ratio of building heights that frame the streetscape to the total 

width of the streetscape area.   Streetscapes closer to the 1:1 end of this range should be used only on 

secondary streets in the village centers. 



Article VI  Section C 
 

Village Districts  CVC Community Village Center 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 76  

 

c. Site Access:  Site access shall be according to Article V. of the Fairhope Subdivision Regulations 

 

d. Parking:  Refer to Article IV., Section E. for general parking standards.  The following additional parking 

standards apply in the CVC district: 

(1) All off-street parking shall be located 

behind the front building line, and parking 

not located behind the rear building line 

shall be screened from the right-of-way by 

a two and one-half to four foot wall or 

opaque landscape screen extended at the 

front building line.  See Figure 6-22. 

(2)  The maximum size of an off-street parking 

area for any use or group of uses is 125 

spaces.  No block shall have more than 

45% of the area dedicated to off-street 

parking. 

(3) No parking lots shall be located on the 

corner of blocks. 

(4) Parking totals shall be based on the parking 

schedule in Article IV., Section E. for all 

uses proposed in the CVC district.  

Reductions in the required parking may be 

made from that cumulative total according to 

the standards of that section. 

 

e. Building Design:  The following building design 

standards apply in the CVC district: 

(1) All non-residential or mixed-use structures, 

except for civic uses, shall have a front 

building facade that occupies at least 75% of 

the lot width at the front building line.  See 

Figure 6-23. 

(2) All buildings shall have a primary entrance 

that faces the street. 

(3) All primary entrances shall be connected to the 

public right-of-way by a sidewalk at least five feet 

wide. 

(4) Between 50% and 80% of ground level, street-

facing facades of non-residential buildings shall 

be transparent with glazing.  See Figure 6-24. 

(5) Between 25% to 60% of all street-facing 

facades and upper floor front facades shall be 

transparent with glazing.  See Figure 6-24. 

 

f. Design Guidelines:  The following design elements 

are recommended in the CVC district: 

(1)  Uses – The majority of ground level uses 

should be from the Retail category.  Service and 

Civic uses are also acceptable on ground levels 

provided they are not more than 50% of the gross 

floor area.  Office or Residential uses may be 

appropriate on ground levels in limited 

circumstances, but should generally be on upper 

levels of buildings. 

(2) Roofs – Roofs should be either pitched between 

6:12 and 12:12 or be flat with parapets or decorative 

Figure 6-22.  Any parking on the sides of buildings near the 

public street shall be screened with a decorative fence or 

wall or landscape screen extended at the building line to 

continue the street wall formed by the building line. 

Figure 6-23.  Building facades shall occupy at least 

75% of the lot frontage at the front building line. 

Figure 6-24.  Ground level facades between 50% 

and 80% transparency, and upper level facades 

between 25% and 60% transparency. 



Article VI  Section C 
 

Village Districts  CVC Community Village Center 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 77  

 

cornices.  Roof mounted equipment should be 

screened from public view on all sides. 

(3)  Scale – Buildings should not exceed a height 

to width ratio of 1:3 without a variation in the 

building mass to break up the scale.  

Variations in building mass could include an 

offset in the building height between 10% and 

15%, or a setback in the facade between three 

and six feet.  Any such variation should occur 

over at least 25% of the entire facade.  See 

Figure 6-25. 

(4)   Architectural Style – All buildings should 

include a base, body, and crown.  Transitions 

between these areas should occur at floor changes 

or at the cornice line of the roof.  Transitions 

should be created by material or color changes 

or the use of ornamental features.  The 

architectural style and materials should be 

consistent on all sides of a building. 

(5) Building Height – Building heights should not 

differ by more than 15% on a single block, 

except that taller buildings that anchor a corner 

may not be considered in calculating the block 

average. See Figure 6-26. 

(6)  Entrances – All primary entrances should 

be articulated by any of the following 

design elements: 

(a) a canopy or arcade;  See Figure 6-27a. 

(b) an entrance projecting from the 

façade no more than 3 feet; See 

Figure 6-27b. 

(c) an entrance recessed from the front 

façade between 3 and 5 feet;  See 

Figure 6-27c. 

(d) a combination of ornamental 

architectural molding and windows 

such as transom windows.  See 

Figure 6-27da.  

(7) Openings – Window and door openings 

should be vertically oriented, however 

windows and doors should be grouped 

to have a similar orientation as the 

structure. Building entrances should 

occur a minimum of every 75 feet 

along street frontages.  

(8) Diversity - Buildings should present 

diverse but consistent appearances.  

Changes in material, color or relief 

areas are acceptable when used as 

accents to the primary materials, color, 

and wall.  Use of visual features such 

as awnings, ornamental doors and 

windows, and architectural details are 

encouraged to create diversity. 

 

Figure 6-25.  Long building facades should use variations 

in building mass while still presenting a consistent 

streetscape. 

Figure 6-26.  Height deviations in buildings along a single 

block should be small except that taller buildings may anchor 

corners of blocks. 

 

c.  Recessed Entry 

a.  Canopy or Arcade Entry 

d.  Ornamental Entry 

b.  Projecting Entry 

Figure 6-27 a-d.  Demonstrates the different types of entry 

treatments that help add variety and animation to buildings along 

the streetscape. 



Article VI  Section D 
 

Village Districts  Village Zoning Special Review Procedures 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 78  

 

 
D. Village Zoning Special Review Procedures 
 

1. Intent  

 

The Village Zoning Special Review Procedures offer an incentive of expedited and consolidated review.  These 

special review procedures are intended to provide some offset for any added time and expense for project 

development under the standards of the Village Zoning Districts.  This special procedure will reward 

developments that more directly implement the goals of the Comprehensive Plan and comply with the standards 

and guidelines in this Article of the Zoning Ordinance with expedited review of development applications. 

 

2. Applicability  

 

Any rezoning application to the VRM, NVC, or CVC may apply under the expedited review procedure 

contained in this subsection D., provided: 

a. The application satisfies the goal of the Comprehensive Plan, the intent of the village zoning districts, and 

meets or exceeds all applicable standards in this Article VI and the Fairhope Subdivision Regulations; and 

b. The applicant has demonstrated and signed an affidavit with the application for expedited review stating 

that public outreach pertaining to all elements of the development application through any one of the 

following techniques has occurred: 

(1) Open meetings with nearby property owners and any other interested parties to discuss the design and 

development of the project; or 

(2) A public design charter whereby the public is invited to a series of meetings where design and 

development issues and goals are formulated leading to the creation of design alternatives, and the 

selection of preferred design concepts; or 

(3) Any other method of open meetings or workshops whereby stakeholders in the project and nearby 

property owners can be informed and potentially influence the direction of the proposed design and 

development concepts in the village; 

c. All property contained within the approved village zoning districts shall be accompanied by a regulating 

plan, development plan or other conceptual representation of site development which considers 

development of the village as an integrated site and subjects all future phases of development to 

compliance with the regulating plan, development plan, or conceptual site plan. 

d. Eligibility for the expedited review process in no way affects the review criteria that must be met prior to 

acceptance of a rezoning application to the VRM, NVC, or CVC zoning districts. 

 

3. Procedures  

 

a. Initiation:  A zoning map amendment to rezone property to the VRM, NVC, or CVC district may be 

initiated by a majority of the City Council, a majority of the Planning Commission, or the property owner. 

 

b. Application:  An application for a zoning amendment shall be submitted on the application form provided 

by the Director of Planning and Building.  The applicant must request in writing that the application be 

reviewed through the expedited review process.  Applications can be submitted 20 days prior to the 

Planning Commission meeting, instead of according to the published Planning Commission schedule.  The 

application shall include all information requested on the application form.  The Director of Planning and 

Buildings shall determine if the application is complete.  If the application is not complete, the Director 

shall notify the applicant in writing indicating necessary steps to cure the incomplete application.  Upon 

determination of a complete application, notice of the application will be published and/or mailed.  The 

applicant shall be responsible for all costs of notification and filing fees. 

 

c. Notice – 

(1) Notice of Planning Commission Hearing 

(a) Published Notice – Notice shall be published once, at least 15 days prior to the hearing, in a 

newspaper of general circulation.  The notice shall include the following: 

(i) A provision that the application will be considered by the Planning Commission; 



Article VI  Section D 
 

Village Districts  Village Zoning Special Review Procedures 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 79  

 

(ii) A copy of the proposed amendment or application is available at City Hall;  

(iii) The time and place that the application will be considered by the Planning Commission; 

(iv) All persons shall have an opportunity to be heard in opposition to or in favor of the 

amendment; 

(v) In the case of a zoning map amendment, a general description of any property, including any 

common name by which the property is known. 

(b) Mailed Notice – The applicant shall furnish the City the names and mailing addresses of all 

persons owning property within 300 feet of any specific property that is the subject of the 

application.  Names and addresses shall be from the latest records of the county revenue office and 

accuracy of the list shall be the applicant’s responsibility.  Where land within 300 feet involves 

leasehold property, the names and addresses of the landowner and the leasehold improvements 

shall be provided to the City. 

(c) Posted Notice – The applicant shall post on any specific property, which is the subject of the 

application, a sign facing each adjacent public street.  The sign shall be furnished by the City at the 

time of application giving notice of the hearing.  The sign shall be posted no later than 15 days 

prior to the hearing before the Planning Commission, and shall remain posted until final action of 

the City Council.  It is the sole responsibility of the applicant to post the sign in accordance with 

these regulations.  Failure to post this sign may result in nullification of the zoning change 

decision and application.  

(d) Upon determination of a complete application, notice of the application will be published and/or 

mailed.  The applicant shall be responsible for all costs of notification and filing fees.  

(2) Notice of City Council Hearing – Prior to the City Council hearing, two notices shall occur in a 

newspaper of general circulation in the City, or where no such paper exists, in four conspicuous places 

in the City.  Each notice shall be at least 15 days prior to the date when the City Council will consider 

the application. 

(a) Initial Publication – The initial publication shall be according to the following: 

(i) The text of the proposed amendment in full or the application; 

(ii) The time and place that the application will be considered by the City Council;  

(iii) Notice that all persons shall have an opportunity to be heard in opposition to or in favor of the 

application. 

(b) Second Publication – The second publication shall be according to the following: 

(i) A synopsis of the proposed application; 

(ii) The date and name of the newspaper or locations of the first publication; 

(iii) The time and place that the application will be considered by the review body; 

(iv) Notice that all persons shall have an opportunity to be heard in opposition to or in favor of the 

application. 

(3)  Compliance with Law - The foregoing requirements are intended with applicable law relating to 

notice.  To the existent that such requirements do not so comply with applicable law or in the event any 

applicable law is hereafter altered, amended or otherwise modified, this section C.1.c. shall be 

construed so as to comply with such altered, amended or modified law. 
 

d. Review – The proposed amendment shall be reviewed according to the following: 

(1) A complete application shall be reviewed by the Director of Planning and Building.   

(2) The application shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at the next available meeting.  The 

Planning Commission shall consider the application and take one of the following actions: 

(a) Recommend approval of the application to the City Council; 

(b) Recommend approval of the application to the City Council, conditioned on specific revisions; 

(c) Recommend denial of the application to the City Council; or 

(d) Continue discussion of the application for further study.  An application shall only be continued 

one time without the applicant’s consent before the Planning Commission shall pass it along to the 

City Council for action.  Any continuance shall be for a time reasonably necessary to completely 

and adequately address the issue of further study.  An applicant may agree to more continuances. 

(3) The application shall be submitted to the City Council, with the recommendation of the Planning 

Commission.  The City Council shall consider the application at a public hearing and take one of the 

following actions: 

(a) Approve the application; 



Article VI  Section D 
 

Village Districts  Village Zoning Special Review Procedures 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 80  

 

(b) Approve the application, conditioned on specific revisions; 

(c) Deny the application;  

(d) Continue discussion of the application for further study.  An application shall only be continued 

one time without the applicant’s consent before the City Council shall take one of the above 

actions.  Any continuance shall be for a time reasonably necessary to completely and adequately 

address the issue of further study.  An applicant may agree to more continuances; or 

(e) Remand the proposed amendment to the Director of Planning and Building or to the Planning 

Commission for further study and discussion.  An application may be remanded only once without 

the applicant’s consent before the City Council shall take one of the above actions.  An applicant 

may agree to more remands. 

 

e. Criteria:  The application shall be reviewed based on the following criteria: 

(1) Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan; 

(2) Compliance with the standards, goals, and intent of this ordinance; 

(3) The character of the surrounding property, including any pending development activity; 

(4)  Adequacy of public infrastructure to support the proposed development; 

(5) Impacts on natural resources, including existing conditions and ongoing post-development conditions; 

(6) Compliance with other laws and regulations of the City; 

(7) Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations of other jurisdictions; 

(8) Impacts on adjacent property including noise, traffic, visible intrusions, potential physical impacts, and 

property values; 

(9) Impacts on the surrounding neighborhood including noise, traffic, visible intrusions, potential physical 

impacts, and property values. 

 

f. Limitation on Re-submittal:  No application for a zoning map amendment shall be considered within 365 

days from a final decision on a previous application for the same or similar parcel of land.  An application 

may be withdrawn without prejudice prior to consideration by the Planning Commission and City Council.  

A request to withdraw an application shall be made in writing. 

  

g. Modifications:  Modifications in substantial conformance with an approved regulating plan or development 

plan may be approved by the Director of Planning and Building if they meet the following conditions: 

(1) The modification addresses actual site conditions that were not anticipated in the reviewed rezoning 

and regulating or development plan; 

(2) The modification meets the intent of the village zoning district standards or any conditions on rezoning 

in an equivalent or improved manner than the original regulating or development plan; and 

(3) The modification results in no greater impact on adjacent property than the approved regulating or 

development plan. 

 

 



Article VII  Section A 
 

Non-conformities  Purpose and Intent  

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 81  

 

 

 

 

 

Article VII 

Non-conformities 

 
A. Purpose and Intent 

B. Non-conforming Structures 

C. Non-conforming Uses 

D. Non-conforming Lots 

E. Maintenance of Non-conformities 

F. Adjacent Land 
 

 

 

 

 
 

A. Purpose and Intent 
 

This ordinance seeks to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare, and avoid any unreasonable invasion 

of established private property rights.  The elimination of existing buildings and structures or uses that are not in 

conformance with the provisions of this ordinance is as much a subject of health, safety and general welfare as is the 

prevention of the establishment of new uses that would violate the provisions of this ordinance.  Lawful non-

conformities can adversely affect orderly development, maintenance, and use and taxable values throughout the 

City.  To avoid undue hardship, non-conformities that came into existence lawfully should be allowed to exist 

subject to conditions in this Article; however, the conditions should seek to ultimately secure compliance with the 

comprehensive plan. 

 

 

B. Non-conforming Structures 
 

Structures that were legally constructed prior to the adoption of this ordinance, but which could not be 

constructed under the terms of this ordinance are considered legal non-conforming structures.  A legal 

non-conforming structure may continue to exist subject to the following: 

 

1. Non-conforming structures, or those parts of a structure that are non-conforming may not be 

expanded either horizontally, or vertically.  Alteration and expansions shall conform to all current 

regulations.  

2. The structure shall remain legal in all other regards except for the non-conformance that existed upon 

adoption of the ordinance that made the structure non-conforming. 

3. A non-conforming structure, which is not intentionally damaged, destroyed, or removed, may be 

restored within one year from the date of the event.  If the structure is not re-constructed in one year 



Article VII  Section B 
 

Non-conformities  Non-conforming Structures  

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 82  

 

all restorations and improvements shall be in compliance with applicable ordinances.  The burden of 

proof of date of damage or destruction shall be on the person proposing the restoration. 
 

 

C. Non-conforming Uses 
 

Use of land or structure that legally existed prior to the adoption of this ordinance, but which could not be initiated 

under the terms of this ordinance is considered a legal non-conforming use.  A legal non-conforming use of land or 

structures may continue to exist subject to the following: 

 

1. The use shall be restricted to the lot and building occupied by the use as of the effective date of the ordinance 

creating the non-conformance.  A legal non-conforming use shall not be extended to any other building or lot or 

part of a lot. 

2. A lawful non-conforming use that ceases for any reason for a period of more than 180 consecutive days shall 

not be reinitiated unless it is in compliance with all ordinances.  If a legal non-conforming use is replaced by a 

conforming use, the legal non-conforming use shall not be reinitiated. 

3. Any site characteristic of a use, whether conforming to this ordinance or a legal non-conforming use, in 

existence prior to adoption of this ordinance (such as parking, landscaping, or driveways) shall be considered 

legal.  However, any change in use, expansion of the use, or expansion of the structure associated with the use 

shall require all non-conforming site characteristics to be brought in conformance with this ordinance.  

4. A change of a legal non-conforming use shall only be allowed if the change is to a conforming use or to a use 

that is considered less non-conforming, as determined by the Director of Planning and Building, either in extent 

of non-conformance or in intensity. 

 
 

D.  Non-conforming Lots 
 

Where a lot, tract or parcel of land has an area or width that does not conform to the requirements of the district in 

which it is located, the lot may be used for a detached single-family dwelling except in the M-1 and M-2 Industrial 

Districts.  A single detached family dwelling may be constructed in an R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, or R-5 Residential 

District provided the lot to be so used has a minimum area of four thousand (4,000) square feet and a minimum lot 

width at the building line of forty (40) feet, provided it is located on a public sewer. 

 

Yard requirements shall be modified subject to the following conditions: 

1. On double frontage lots (interior lots abutting two (2) streets) the required front yard shall be provided on each 

street. 

2. The side yard requirements for substandard lots of record may be reduced for each side yard at the rate of one 

(1) foot for each four (4) feet by which the lot width lacks fifty (50) feet, provided in no event shall such side 

yard be reduced to less than five (5) feet on each side. 

3.  The minimum front setback required for the district (and, on corner lots, the street side setback) shall not apply 

to any lot where the average front building line(s) of the adjacent lot(s), is less than the minimum setback 

required for the district.  In such cases, the front building line may be the same as the average front building 

lines(s) of the adjacent lot(s).  In no case, shall the front building line be more than 5’ less than the minimum 

setback required for the district. 

4. On corner lots, the street side yard shall be that part of the lot having its greatest frontage abutting that right-of-

way and the required setback shall be 20 feet, unless otherwise provided herein. 

 

E. Maintenance of Non-conformities 
 

In the interest of public safety and health, routine maintenance of non-conforming situations shall continue as 

warranted by the property owner or otherwise required by law, provided that no maintenance involves continuance 

or expansion of the non-conformity contrary to this Article. 

 

 



Article VII  Section F. 
 

Non-conformities  Adjacent Land  

 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 83  

 

 

F.  Adjacent Land 
 

The presence of a non-conforming use in a zoning district shall not be allowable as grounds for the granting of 

variances for other surrounding properties by the board of adjustment. 
 

 

 



Article VIII  Section A 
 

Enforcement  Penalties 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 84  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article VIII 

Enforcement 
 

A. Penalties 

B. Remedies 

C. Appeal 
 

 

 

 
 

A. Penalties 
 

Any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be fined upon conviction, not less than twenty-five 

dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and court costs for each offense.  Violation of 

any provision of this ordinance may also be punished by issuance of municipal offense ticket as provided by 

Ordinance No. 862. 

 

 

B.  Remedies 
 

In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or converted, in violation of this 

ordinance, the building inspector, legal officer, or other appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring 

property owner who would be specially damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute 

injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, 

reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use; or to correct or abate such violation; or to prevent the 

occupancy of the building, structure, or land.  Each and every day such unlawful erection, construction, 

reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance, or use continues shall be deemed a separate offense. 

 

 

C. Appeal 
 

If, after notification of a zoning violation the individual or corporation elects to apply for a zoning variance, the 

applicant must complete all notification requirements of the variance application process within ten (10) business 

days of notification of the violation.  Written notification of the proposed variance shall be postmarked to the 

required surrounding property owners within ten (10) business days and in addition, such other public notification as 

required shall have been provided by the applicant.  Should the applicant be unable to comply with this provision he 

shall provide a written explanation through the building inspector to the board of adjustment.  Failure to do either 

shall be interpreted as a withdrawal of the appeal and shall subject the applicant to immediate compliance with this 

ordinance. 

 

 



Article IX  Section A 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Interpretation 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 85  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article IX 

Definitions and Interpretation 

 
A. Interpretation 

B. Description of Uses 

C. Defined Terms 
 

 
 

 

A. Interpretation 
 

All words shall have the customary dictionary meaning, unless specifically defined or described by this Article or 

unless context requires a different meaning.  The present tense includes the future tense and the future tense includes 

the present tense.  The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.  Graphics, tables and 

commentary boxes used in this ordinance are to aid interpretation of the text, unless otherwise specifically stated.  In 

the event of a conflict or ambiguity between a graphic, table or commentary box and the text, the text shall control.  

 

 

B. Description of Uses 
 

This section contains descriptions associated with the use of land.  Where a use is not specifically listed but meets all 

of the characteristics of the use description, or meets all of the characteristics of a use that is specifically listed, the 

Director of Planning and Building may interpret the ordinance as allowing the use.  Where a use is similar, but does 

not meet all of the characteristics, is different in scope, or is different in impact from the characteristics described or 

a specific use listed, the Director shall find that the use is similar but not consistent with the use description and 

specifically described use and it shall be referred to the Board of Adjustment for an interpretation and decision 

consistent with the intent of this ordinance.  Any other uses that are different from those described and not 

anticipated by this ordinance, but may be allowed by a zoning text amendment.  

 

The following use definitions and descriptions are grouped into seven general use categories: 1) Dwellings; 2) Civic; 

3) Office; 4) Retail; 5) Service; 6) Manufacturing; and 7) Rural.  Each general use category is either described or 

defined, followed by specific uses or a more specific use classification within that category. 

 

1. Dwelling Use Category - 

 

The Dwelling Use category includes all types of living arrangements.  A “dwelling” or “dwelling unit” is any 

building, portion thereof, or other enclosed space or area used as or intended for use permanently or temporarily 

as the home of one family, with separate cooking and housekeeping facilities. 

 

a. Single Family – a detached dwelling designed for and occupied by one family. 

 

b. Two Family – a detached building with only two dwelling units designed for and occupied by or for 

occupancy by two families. 

 

c. Townhouse – a dwelling unit attached to a series of other dwelling units by not more than 2 vertical party 

walls, and where each unit maintains an individual entrance from the exterior of the building and is on its 

own lot. 



Article IX  Section B 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Description of Uses 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 86  

 

 

d. Townhouse Complex – a group of attached dwelling units meeting the townhouse definition, except that 

they are on a single lot. 

 

e. Patio/Garden Home – a detached dwelling unit located on its own lot, having only one side yard required 

or detached building with only two dwelling units designed for and occupied by two families, with a small 

courtyard, patio or side yard required for each dwelling unit.   

 

f. Multiple-Family/Apartment – a building with three or more dwelling units designed for or occupied by 

three or more families with separate cooking and housekeeping facilities for each, where either the units 

share a common entrance from the exterior of the building or any single unit has a common wall or floor 

with more than two other units. 

 

g. Manufactured Home – a structure that is governed by the federal manufactured home construction and 

safety standards established by the National Manufactured Homes Construction and Safety Standards Act, 

42 U.S.C. Section 5403. 

 

h. Manufactured Home Development – any plot of ground upon which two or more manufactured homes, 

occupied for dwelling purposes, are located, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such 

accommodation. 

 

i. Manufactured Home Space – a plot of ground within a manufactured home development designed for the 

accommodation of one manufactured home. 

 

j. Mixed Use – a building designed for one or more other uses in addition to one or more dwelling units that 

are not accessory to any of the other uses. 

 

k. Accessory Dwelling Unit – a dwelling unit that is associated with and incidental to a principal use, and is on 

the same lot as the principle use. 

 

l. Estate Dwelling – a single-family dwelling unit located on a lot within a block that meets the standards of 

the Fairhope Subdivision regulations and the lot is at least ¼ of the area of that block or ¾ of an acre, 

whichever is larger.  

 

2. Civic Use Category  

 

The Civic Use category includes uses serving a broad and general public interest to enhance daily community 

life for adjacent land owners and residents, which are typically run by a government entity, not-for-profit 

agency or association, religious or charitable institutions, or similar philanthropic organizations.  

 

a. Elementary School – an education facility for grades K through 8. 

 

b. Secondary School – an education facility for grades 9 through 12. 

 

c. Education Facility – a place of general education for students beyond grade 12.  It may include vocational 

training, continuing education, or education campuses. 

 

d. Library – an establishment offering educational resources and is open to the public. 

 

e. Place of Worship – an establishment that conducts organized religious services and assemblies. 

 

f. Cemetery – land used or intended to be used for the burial of the animal or human dead and dedicated for 

cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums, and mortuaries if operated in connection with and 

within the boundaries of such cemetery. 

 



Article IX  Section B 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Description of Uses 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 87  

 

g. Hospital – an establishment providing health service, medical and surgical care, and room and board to 

persons suffering from illness, disease, or injury, including supporting facilities such as laboratories, 

outpatient facilities, and training facilities. 

 

h. Public Open Space – any space dedicated for public use, exclusive of rights-of-way and easements, and 

open from the ground to the sky.  Public open space does not include any impervious surfaces designated 

for automobile use. 

 

i. Common Open Space – any space dedicated for common use by a group of citizens due to property 

ownership, residency, or patronage of facilities associated with the open space, exclusive of rights-of-way 

and easements, and open from the ground to the sky.  Common open space does not include any 

impervious surfaces designated for automobile use or any required yard or setback. 

 

j. Community Center or Club – a building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated for a social, 

literary, political, educational, or recreational purpose primarily for the exclusive use of members and their 

guests. 

 

k. Public Utility – a use of any structure, land, or infrastructure by a regulated enterprise or franchise to 

provide a service to all members of the general public that is deemed essential for the public health, safety, 

and welfare.  Review by the Planning Commission, in accordance with Section 11-52-11 of the Code of 

Alabama, for review of compliance with the Fairhope Subdivision Regulations and Comprehensive Plan, 

may be required for all public utility facilities. 

 

3. Office Use Category  

 

The Office Use Category consists of the use of buildings for administrating the business of professional firms, 

organizations, or government, whose products or services are of the nature that generally do not involve the 

frequent and intensive interactions with clients, customers, or patrons on the premises, and where delivery of 

the product does not necessarily need to occur on the premises. 

 

a. General – any building used for the administrative affairs of a firm, organization or government. 

 

b. Professional – a building occupied by a profession and offering professional services to clients, customers, 

or patrons which may involve occasional on-site contact with clients, customers or patrons.  Examples 

include architect, accountant, real estate, engineer, lawyer, or other similar professions. 

 

c. Home Occupation – an operation for gain or support conducted only by members of a family residing on 

the premises limited in its use and not in a manner detrimental to the character of the surrounding 

neighborhood. 

 

4. Retail Use Category  

 

The Retail Use Category consists of businesses that sell merchandise to consumers for use off premises. 

 

a. Grocery – a business engaged primarily in the retail sale of food for home consumption, but may also 

include accessory sales of household products. 

 

b. Convenience Store – a business engaged in the retail sale of food and household products for consumption 

off premises and characterized by the rapid turnover of customers. 

 

c. General Merchandise – a business primarily engaged in the sale of merchandise for consumer use off of the 

premises.  This use excludes any more specifically described use. 

 

d. Shopping Center – a group of two or more retail and service establishments consisting of over 18,000 

square feet on the ground floor and located on commonly owned property or sharing the same parking 

facilities. 



Article IX  Section B 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Description of Uses 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 88  

 

 

 

e. Automobile Service Station – any building or land used for retail sale and dispensing of automobile fuel.  

Vehicle lubricants, supplies, accessories, and minor services may be offered if incidental to the sale of fuel 

and no more than three (3) interior vehicle storage and service bays are provided. 

 

f. Garden Center – any retail sales of plants that require outdoor storage of merchandise at any time of the 

year. 

 

g. Outdoor Sales Limited – a retail use where a minor portion of the merchandise, both in area and in business 

value, is typically stored outside during business hours. 

 

h. Outdoor Sales Lot – a retail use where a significant portion of the merchandise, either in area or in business 

value, is typically stored outside during business hours. 

 

5. Service Use Category  

 

The Service Use category is for businesses that offer clients, customers, or patrons goods for consumption on 

the premises, or offer services for performance and delivery on the premises.  

 

a. Convalescent or Nursing Home – a business providing living accommodations and care for persons 

suffering from illness, other than mental or contagious, which is not of sufficient severity to require 

hospitalization, or for persons requiring further institutional care after being discharged from a hospital, and 

where non-resident staff is present for more than 8 hours per day. 

 

b. Clinic – a place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of ailing, infirm, or injured persons, and those 

who are in need of medical and surgical attention, but who are not provided with board. 

 

c. Outdoor Recreation Facility – a business primarily engaged in the provision of outdoor sports, 

entertainment, or similar recreation opportunities for participants or spectators. 

 

d. Mortuary or Funeral Home – an establishment used for the preparation of deceased humans and 

ceremonies prior to burial or cremation. 

 

e. Day Care – a business providing for the day care and/or instruction of non-resident children. 

 

f. General Personal Services – a business that provides including uses such as post office, bank, barber shop 

or beauty salon, film processing, small appliance repair, tailor, office support, or other similar service.  Any 

personal service that is more specifically described is excluded from this use. 

 

g. Automobile Repair – the repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles or parts thereof, including 

collision service, painting, and steam cleaning of vehicles.  Vehicle lubricants, supplies, and accessories 

may be supplied and sold at retail. 

 

h. Indoor Recreation Facility – a business engaged in the provision of indoors sports, entertainment, or 

similar recreation opportunities for participants or spectators.  Examples of uses include roller skating 

rinks, movie theaters, or fitness clubs. 

 

i. Dry Cleaner/Laundry – a business engaged in cleaning clothes, fabrics, or upholstery on-site either by 

drop-off and pick-up by customers or through delivery services. 

 

j. Personal Storage – a business offering separate storage areas leased or rented on an individual basis. 

 

k. Bed and Breakfast or Tourist Home – a business where lodging and/or meals are provided incidental to a 

principle single-family dwelling, where no cooking or dining facilities are provided in individual rooms, 

and where the owner resides on the premises. 



Article IX  Section B 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Description of Uses 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 89  

 

 

l. Hotel or Motel – a business where lodging services, including accessory uses such as eating and drinking 

facilities, recreation facilities and parking, are provided.  Lodgings may consist of sleeping rooms only or 

may include cooking facilities also, but are not intended for long-term occupancy. 

 

m. Boarding House or Dormitory – a business where lodging and/or meals are provided, where no cooking or 

dining facilities are provided in individual rooms, and where an owner or manager resides on the premises. 

 

n. Recreational Vehicle Park – a development providing rental spaces for recreational vehicles such as a 

trailer, camper, or motor home on a short-term basis, including accessory recreation and service facilities 

for the use of the tenants. 

 

o. Restaurant – a business serving prepared meals for consumption on the premises, which may include an 

accessory bar, carry out, drive-through, or catering services. 

 

p. Bar – a business serving alcoholic beverages, which may include accessory food and entertainment 

services. 

 

q. Entertainment Venue – a business where floorshows or other forms of entertainment by persons are 

provided for guests, which may include accessory dining, bar, and similar refreshment services.  Examples 

include concert halls, dinner theaters, or banquet halls. 

 

r. Marina – a business providing boat storage and services on the water. 

 

s. Kennel or Animal Hospital – any business where four (4) or more dogs over four (4) months of age are kept 

for general boarding or medical care. 

 

t. Warehouse – a business where a major portion of the floor area is used for storage of goods, products, or 

parts for distribution at bulk retail or wholesale, or where the storage is a service provided for a fee. 

 

u. Junk Yard or Salvage Yard – a structure or lot where discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold, 

exchanged, baled, packed, stored, accumulated, disassembled, or handled.  This definition shall not include 

properly licensed establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage, of usable second-hand goods.  Nor shall 

it apply to the processing of used, discarded, or salvaged materials as part of properly licensed 

manufacturing operations. 

 

v. Wholesale Establishment – business establishments that generally sell commodities in large quantities or by 

the place to retailers, jobbers, other wholesale establishments, or manufacturing establishments.  These 

commodities are basically for further resale, for use in the fabrication of a product, or for use by a business 

service. 

 

6. Manufacturing Use Category  

 

The Manufacturing Use Category is for businesses engaged in economic activity involving construction, 

production, processing, transformation, warehousing, wholesale, and disposal of goods, products, and 

component parts of goods and products, including related services.  These uses typically belong in a special 

district do to their inability to blend with the uses from other use categories. 

 

a. Limited – any small scale manufacturing use that has a retail or service component and which presents no 

outward, visible, or perceptible presence on manufacturing activity. 

 

b. Light – a business engaged in fabrication, processing, or assembly of finished products or parts, 

predominantly from previously prepared materials, including accessory packaging, incidental storage, 

sales, and distribution of products. 

 



Article IX  Section B 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Description of Uses 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 90  

 

c. General – a business that transforms raw materials through mechanical, chemical or physical processes, 

into component parts or ingredients for subsequent use in light manufacturing or wholesale. 

 

d. Heavy – mass production or extraction of raw materials for subsequent use in general or light 

manufacturing, including uses such as mining, quarrying, agricultural feed lots, and other potentially 

noxious uses. 

 

e. Food Processing – the preparation, storage or processing of food products on a large scale for wholesale.  

Examples of these activities include bakeries, dairies, canneries, and other similar activities or businesses. 

 

7. Rural Use Category  

 

The rural use category is for uses that are commonly associated with an agrarian or rustic lifestyle, and which 

demand little or no public infrastructure or services. 

 

a. Agriculture – the use of land for farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, 

viticulture and animal poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing 

the produce.  The operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural 

activities.  Agriculture uses shall not include the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other 

animals. 

 

b. Plant Nursery – land, building, structure or combination thereof for the storage, cultivation, transplanting 

of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for retail sale or wholesale on the premises including products used 

for gardening or landscaping. 

 

c. Rural Market – a business for the retail sale of agricultural products produced on site and operated without 

any additional site facilities than are otherwise associated with agriculture use.  Roadside stands, truck sales 

or barn sales are examples of such uses; however, the intensity and frequency of such sales shall be so that 

no additional parking, roads, structures, warehouses or other storage facilities are necessary on the site. 

 

8. General Use Definitions and Descriptions  

 

The following use definitions or descriptions do not fit into any single use category, but apply generally 

throughout this ordinance. 

 

a. Accessory Use – a use that is customarily incidental to the principal use, is typically maintained and 

operated as part of the principle use, is subordinate to the principle use, and is located on the same lot as the 

principle use. 

 

b. Airport – any runway, land area or other facility designed and used either publicly or privately by any 

person for the landing and taking off of aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie 

down area, hangars and other necessary buildings, and open spaces. 

 

c. Fixed Dwelling – a dwelling unit (or structure containing several units) attached to a permanent foundation. 

 

d. Garage, Private – a building or part thereof designed and/or used for inside parking of motor vehicles by 

the occupants, patrons or other users of the principal structures on the premises. 

 

e. Garage, Public – a building or part thereof designed or used for indoor or partially indoor (covered) 

parking of motor vehicles, operated as a commercial enterprise, accessory to a commercial enterprise, or as 

a governmental service and providing only incidental services for such vehicles. 

 

f. Lodging – a business where overnight accommodations are provided for transient guests where 

compensation is provided on a daily or weekly basis. 

 

 



Article IX  Section C. 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Defined Terms 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 91  

 

 

C. Defined Terms 
 

Accessory Structure: A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the 

principal use or structure. 

 

Alteration, Building: Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, beams, columns, 

and girders), except such change as may be required for its safety; any addition to a building; or any changes in use 

resulting in moving a building from one lot to another or to a different zoning district. 

  

Arterial Street: A highway or street of considerable continuity, providing direct and continuous connections to 

points along its route through various modes of transportation, interrupted only by major community destinations or 

topographical obstacles. 

 

Artificial Wetland:  A constructed shallow area designed to emulate the natural functions of a wetland including 

evaporation, infiltration, and storage of runoff, sedimentation, and other aquatic functions, which has been 

recognized and approved as a “Best Management Practice.” 

 

Basement: A story all or partly underground but having at least one-half of its height below the average level of the 

adjoining ground. 

 

Bio-filter:  A stormwater management facility that treats stormwater by filtration through vegetation, which as been 

recognized and approved as a “Best Management Practice.” 

 

Bioretention:  This technique removes pollutants in stormwater runoff through adsorption, filtration, sedimentation, 

volatilization, ion exchange, and biological decomposition. A Bioretention Cell (BRC) is a depression in the 

landscape that captures and stores runoff for a short time, while providing habitat for native vegetation that is both 

flood and drought tolerant. BRCs are stormwater control measures (SCMs) that are similar to the homeowner 

practice, of installing rain gardens, with the exception that BRCs have an underlying specialized soil media and are 

designed to meet a desired stormwater quantity treatment storage volume. Peak runoff rates and runoff volumes can 

be reduced and groundwater can be recharged when bioretention is located in an area with the appropriate soil 

conditions to provide infiltration. Bioretention is normally designed for the water quality or “first flush” event, 

typically the first 1”-1.5” of rainfall, to treat stormwater pollutants. 

 

Block: A division or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other rights-of-way, or other 

boundaries as specified in the Fairhope Subdivision Regulations. 

 

Building: Any structure attached to the ground and intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or 

chattels. 

 

Build-to line: The line specified as a distance from the right-of-way or other public easement at which structures are 

required to be constructed for some portion of the lot. 

 

Building line: The actual line at which a building on a lot is constructed. 

 

Building, Height: The vertical distance measured from the average natural elevation of the lot to the mean point of 

the roof of the building. 

 

Building Official: The building official of the City of Fairhope who is appointed by the City and is charged with 

enforcement of this ordinance with the Director of Planning and Building. 

 

Building, Principal: A structure for occupancy in which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot.   

 

Caterer:  Any person/entity who operates from a permitted food facility where food is prepared or stored then 

delivered and/or served off-premise. 

 



Article IX  Section C. 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Defined Terms 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 92  

 

Central Business District: That area of the City designated as the business center of the area and within the 

following boundaries: From one lot back (refers to typical lot depth, see map) from the South side of Morphy 

Avenue to one lot back from the North side of Oak Street and from one lot back from the East side of Bancroft 

Street to one lot back from the West side of Church Street (Reference Map). 

 

Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with bed and banks to confine and conduct 

continuously or periodically flowing water.  

     

Clear Sight Distance:  The area near intersections regulated by the Fairhope Subdivision Regulations for proper 

lines of sight within which no visual obstructions may be placed, or when applied by this ordinance to private 

property, the area near driveway access lanes or driveway aisles where the proper lines of sight are regulated in the 

same manner as the Fairhope Subdivision Regulations. 

 

Collector Street: A street of moderate continuity, providing direct and continuous access to points along its route 

through various modes of transportation, interrupted occasionally by neighborhood destinations or topographic 

obstacles, and used primarily for access between local streets and arterial streets.   

 

Commercial Vehicle: Any vehicle designed and used for transportation of people, goods, or things, other than 

private passenger vehicles. 

 

Commission: The Fairhope Planning Commission. 

 

Comprehensive Plan:  Any plan or program adopted by the city for the physical, systematic, and orderly 

development of the city and its planning jurisdiction with particular regard to streets, parks, industrial and 

commercial undertakings, civic beauty and other matters properly within the police power.   This also includes that 

Fairhope Comprehensive Plan adopted by the City Council of the City of Fairhope, Alabama on January 29, 2001 as 

amended and as the same shall hereafter be altered, amended, modified and/ or replaced from time to time.  

 

Condominium: A form of property ownership where the land under buildings and the open spaces around buildings 

is in single ownership for the common use of building owners or tenants. 

 

Deck: An extension of a building or dwelling unit attached at or below floor level and having no walls or roof; 

railings may be provided; includes the term balcony. 

 

Density: A measurement of the number of dwelling units per acre of land. 

  

a.  Gross Density – the number of dwelling units per acre of the total land to be developed. 

b. Net Density – the number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage involved includes only the 

land devoted to residential uses. 

 

Director of Planning and Building: The official of the City who is charged with enforcement of the provisions of 

this ordinance. 

 

District: A section of the area zoned, within which the zoning regulations are uniform. 

 

Driveway Access Lane: The principal means of vehicular ingress and egress from the right-of-way to a lot. 

 

Driveway Aisle: A vehicular circulation lane internal to a site exclusive of the ingress and egress from the right-of-

way. 

 

Dry Well: A cavity of sufficient size, filled to the surface with compacted rocks to allow water storage capacity. 

 

Dry Swale: A shallow stormwater management facility designed to store or convey excess runoff in a large storm 

event for gradual evaporation and infiltration, but does not retain water in normal storm events or dry periods. 

 



Article IX  Section C. 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Defined Terms 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 93  

 

Easement: A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific purpose or purposes by the general public or 

a corporation or a certain person or persons.   

 

Erected: To cause to be built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon or any other physical operations such as 

excavations, fill, or drainage on the premises required for building.   

 

Expansion, Building: The addition of enclosed or unenclosed rooms or storage spaces, porches, structures or parking 

area to an existing building. 

 

Expansion, Use: The increase in area of land or structure that serves a particular use. 

 

Family: One (1) or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit and using common cooking facilities, provided 

that, unless all members are related by blood, adoption or marriage, no such family shall contain over five (5) 

persons. 

 

Family (Home Occupation): For purposes of home occupations, family is defined as only those persons related by 

blood, marriage or adoption and using common cooking facilities within a single dwelling unit. 

 

First Flush:  This is the given volume of water generated in the drainage area from the first 1” to 1.5” of rainfall.  

 

Flood: A temporary rise in stream or surface water level that results in inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by 

water. 

 

Flood Frequency: The average frequency statistically determined, for which it is expected that a specific flood level 

may by equaled or exceeded. 

 

Floodway: That portion of the flood plain, including the channel, which is reasonably required to discharge the bulk 

of the regional floodwaters.  Floods of less frequent recurrence and non-inundating are usually contained completely 

within the floodway. 

 

Flood Plain: Those areas defined by the U.S. Geological Survey of the U.S. Army Corps  of Engineers as subject to 

flooding once in one hundred (100) years, based on topography and FEMA; and further including any areas as may 

be designated at a future date by regulatory authority of such times. 

 

Frontage, Building: The outside wall surface of a building, excluding porch or deck, nearest to the front lot line.   

 

Frontage: The area of a lot made up of the front building façade and any area between the front building façade and 

the front lot line.   
 

Ground Cover: Natural (mulch) or low growing plants other than deciduous varieties installed to form a continuous 

cover over the ground. 

 

Heritage Tree:  Any live tree greater than or equal to twenty inches (20”) in diameter at breast height (DBH).  

Breast height is established as the height of the trunk of a tree fifty-four inches (54”) above grade. 

 

Homeowners Association or Association: An incorporated, non-profit organization operating under recorded land 

agreements through which, (a) each lot and/or home owner in a planned or other described land area is automatically 

a member, and, (b) each lot is automatically subject to a charge for a proportionate share of the expenses for the 

organization’s activities, such as maintaining a common property, and (c) the charge if unpaid becomes a lien 

against the property.  

 

Lot, Corner: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection or upon two (2) parts of a street which 

form an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees.  The point of intersection of the right-of-

way lines is the corner. 

 



Article IX  Section C. 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Defined Terms 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 94  

 

Lot, Double Frontage or Through: A lot or plot, but not corner lot that abut upon two streets, the two frontages 

being noncontiguous. 

 

Lot, Interior: A lot other than a corner lot. 

 

Lot, Depth: The mean, (average) horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured at right angles to 

the front right-of-way lines. 

 

Lot Width: The mean, (average) horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at the right angles to the lot 

depth.  A minimum lot width shall be applied at the front setback line. 

 

Lot line, Front: On an interior lot, the lot line abutting a street; on a corner lot, the shorter lot line abutting a street; 

on a through lot, the lot line abutting the street providing the primary means of access to the lot; on a flag lot, the 

interior lot line most parallel to and nearest the street from which access is obtained; or on a waterfront lot, the lot 

line abutting the water. 

 

Lot Line, Rear: The lot line opposite to and most distant from the front lot line. 

 

Lot Line, Side: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.  A side lot line of a corner lot separating a lot from a 

right-of-way is called a side street lot line.  A side lot line separating a lot from another lot is called and interior lot 

line. 

 

Lot of Record: A lot, which is a part of the recorded plat or a plot, described by metes and bounds, the map and/or 

description of which has been recorded according to Alabama law.   

 

Master Plan:  Any portion of the Comprehensive Plan adopted by the Planning Commission for the physical 

development of the City and areas outside the boundaries, which bear relation to the planning of the municipality. 

 

Parking Space or Parking Lot: An area reserved for temporary storage of motor vehicles. 

 

Plat: A map, plan or layout of a county, city, town, section or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of 

properties. 

 

Planned Unit Development: A planned unit development (1) is land under unified control, planned and developed as 

a whole in a single development operation or approved programmed series of development operations for dwelling 

units and related uses and facilities; (2) includes principal and accessory uses and structures substantially related to 

the character of the development itself and the surrounding area of which it is a part; (3) is developed according to 

comprehensive and detailed plans which include not only streets, utilities, lots, or building sites and the like, but also 

site plans, floor plans, and  elevations for all building as intended to be located, constructed, used, and related to each 

other, and detailed plans for other uses and improvements, facilities, and services as will be for common use by 

some or all of the occupants of the planned unit development but will not be provided, operated or maintained at 

public expense. 

 

Porch: A roofed-over or open space attached to the outside of an exterior wall of a building, which has no enclosure 

other than the exterior walls of such building.  Open mesh screening shall not be considered an enclosure. 

 

Rain Garden:  A shallow depression in a landscape that captures water and holds it for a short period of time to 

allow for infiltration, filtration of pollutants, habitat for native plants, and effective stormwater treatment for small-

scale residential or commercial drainage areas. Rain gardens use native plants, mulch, and soil to clean up runoff.  

 

Recreational Vehicle: A self-propelled vehicle used for temporary housing of individuals  and families during travel. 

This includes campers, camping trailers, motor homes and smaller mobile manufactured homes (up to a length of 

twenty-eight (28) feet exclusive of hitch) capable of being towed by a passenger motorcar. 

 

Regulatory Flood: The flood which is representative of large floods known to have occurred generally in the area 

and reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur.  The regulatory flood generally has a flood 



Article IX  Section C. 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Defined Terms 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 95  

 

frequency of approximately one hundred (100) years as determined from an analysis of floods at a particular site and 

other sites in the same general regions (See Ordinance No. 668). 

 

Regulatory Flood Protection, Elevation: The elevation of the regulatory flood plus one (1) foot of freeboard to 

provide a safety factor. 

 

Right-of-Way: A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way.  In addition to the roadway it normally 

incorporates the curb, lawn strips, sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features, 

(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges. 

 

Seat: For purposes of determining the number of off-street parking spaces for certain uses, the number of seats is the 

number of seating units installed or indicated or each twenty-four (24) lineal inches of benches, pews or space for 

loose chairs. 

 

Setback Line: A line established by the subdivision regulations and/or this ordinance, generally parallel with and 

measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no building, other than accessory building, or 

structure, may be located above ground. 

 

Sewers, Public or Community: An approved sewage disposal system, which provides a collection network and 

disposal system and central sewage and treatment facility for a single community, development, or region. 

 

Sewers, On-Site: A septic tank or similar installations on an individual lot which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological 

process or equally satisfactory process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe disposal of 

the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation officials having jurisdiction. 

 

Short-Term Rental: Includes any person, firm, entity, partnership, trust, corporation, association or organization that 

is renting a dwelling for less than 30 days are not allowed in R-1, R-2 and R-3.  Short-term Rentals shall only be 

allowed in the R-4, R-5, B-1, B-2, B-3a and B-3b zoning districts.  Short-term rentals shall be subject to the 

Business License Code of the City of Fairhope.     

 

Sign: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade 

names or marks or combination thereof, by which anything is made known, such as the designation of an individual, 

a firm, an association, a profession, a business, a commodity, or product which are visible from any public way 

and/or used as an outdoor display. 

 

Sign, A-Frame: A-Frame Signs are allowed only within the City of Fairhope Central Business District.  A-Frame 

Signs are designed to stand on their own, either on public or private property.  A-Frame Signs are hinged at the apex 

to be folded into a sandwich position.  A permit is required from the City of Fairhope. 

 

Sign, Building: A sign attached in any manner against or to a building or appurtenance of a building. 

 

Sign, Construction: Any sign listing principal contractors, architects and any establishments for the construction site 

where the sign is placed. 

 

Sign, Copy: The wording on a sign surface in either permanent or removable letterform. 

 

Sign, Directional: A sign permanently or temporarily erected by or with approval of any authorized government 

agency to denote the route to any city, town or village, historic or religious place, shrine, public building, or hospital 

and signs directing and regulating traffic; public safety signs; sign or notices of public places of public and civic 

meetings and signs giving the name of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises or the street number. 

 

Sign, Double-faced: A sign having two (2) display surfaces, displaying the same copy, which are attached parallel 

and back to back, not more than twelve (12) inches apart. 

 

Sign Face: The area of a sign including the entire surface on which the copy is placed. 

 



Article IX  Section C. 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Defined Terms 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 96  

 

Sign, Freestanding: Any sign, which is supported by structures or supports in or upon the ground and independent 

of support from any building. 

 

Sign, Height: The vertical distance from the finished grade at the base of the supporting structure to the top of the 

sign, or its frame or supporting structure, whichever is higher. 

  

Sign, Incidental:  A sign providing no advertising other than a logo or name and necessary only for assuring safe 

ingress, egress, circulation, or other safety-related communications. 

 

Sign, Indirectly Illuminated: A sign designed or arranged to reflect light from an artificial source external to the sign 

face. 

 

Sign, Internally Illuminated: A light source, which is enclosed within the sign and viewed through a translucent 

panel.  This type of illumination is often referred to as direct. 

 

Sign, Non-Conforming: Any sign, which does not meet the requirements of this ordinance. 

 

Sign, Off Site: A sign relating its subject matter or any portion thereof to the premises other than the premises on 

which it is located. 

 

Sign, On Site: A sign relating its subject matter to the premises on which it is located. 

 

Sign, Permanent: A sign affixed to a building or the ground. 

 

Sign, Real Estate: A sign which advertises the sale, rental or development of the premise  upon which it is located. 

 

Sign, Roof: Any sign erected, constructed, and maintained with the principal support on the roof structure. 

 

Sign, Sandwich: Any double-faced sign, which may readily be moved from place to place. 

 

Sign, Shopping Center: A ground sign identifying a shopping center by name only. 

 

Sign, Snipe: Any sign of any material whatsoever that is attached in any way to a utility pole, tree, fence post or any 

similar object located or situated on public or private property, not otherwise exempt. 

 

Sign, Structure: Any construction used or designed to support a sign. 

 

Sign, Subdivision: Any sign designed to identify a subdivision or neighborhood. 

 

Sign, Surface Area: The surface area of a sign shall be computed for the entire area within the periphery of a regular 

geometric form, or combination of regular geometric forms, comprising all of the display area of the sign, and 

including all of the elements of the matter displayed.  The surface area of a sign shall be measured from the outside 

edges of the sign or the sign frame or sign structure whichever is greater. 

 

Sign, Temporary: A sign or advertising display intended to be displayed for a limited period of time, generally no 

longer than a month. 

 

Sign, Window: Any sign place inside or upon a window and which is intended to be seen from the exterior. 

 

Special Exception:  Permission granted by the Board of Adjustment for a use indicated in this ordinance as a use 

limited to a special exception procedure, subject to conditions specified in this ordinance and any conditions the 

Board deems necessary to ensure that community interests are furthered by permission of the use.   

 

Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to 

something having a location on the ground. 

 



Article IX  Section C. 
 

Definitions and Interpretation  Defined Terms 

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE 97  

 

Street: That portion of the right-of-way paved for vehicular traffic, parking, or the shared use of bicycles. 

 

Shrub: A woody perennial plant differing from a perennial herb by its persistent and woody stems and from a tree 

by its low stature and habit of branching from the base. 

 

Story: That part of a building lying between floor and ceiling.  For purposes herein, a story does not include attic 

space entirely under a hip, gable or gambrel roof, whether or not such space is occupied. 

 

Use or Principal Use: The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated, arranged, intended or for 

which it is occupied. 

 

Variances: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations in a district with regard to placement of 

structures, developmental criteria or provision facilities.  Examples would be: allowing smaller yard dimensions 

because an existing lot of record is of substandard size; waiving a portion of required parking and/or loading space 

due to some unusual circumstances; allowing fencing and/or plant material buffering different from that required 

due to some unusual circumstances.  Variances are available only on appeal to the Board of Adjustment and subject 

to satisfaction of the standards specified in this ordinance. 

 

Vegetated Swale:  A shallow, open-channel stabilized with grass or other herbaceous vegetation designed to filter 

pollutants and convey stormwater. Swales are applicable along roadsides, in parking lots, residential subdivisions, 

commercial developments, and are well suited to single-family residential and campus type developments. Water 

quality swales are designed to meet sheer stress targets for the design storm, may be characterized as wet or dry 

swales, may contain amended soils to infiltrate stormwater runoff, and are generally planted with turf grass or other 

herbaceous vegetation. 

 

Vehicular Use Area: Any ground surface area, excepting public right-of-ways, used by any type of vehicle whether 

moving or at rest for the purpose of, driving, parking, loading, unloading, storage, or display, and other vehicular 

uses under, on, or within buildings. 

 

Visual Screen: A barrier of living or non-living landscape material, put in place for the purpose of separating and 

obscuring from view those areas so screened. 

 

Waterfront Lot:  Any lot or parcel adjacent to Mobile Bay.  

 

Yard: A space on the same lot with a main building, open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures 

and open to the sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted. 

  

a.  Yard, Front: A yard extending the full width of the lot and situated between the front lot line and the 

building line projected to the sidelines of the lot. 

 

b.  Yard, Rear: A yard extending the full width of the lot and the building line of the main building projected 

to the sidelines of the lot.  On all corner lots the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the 

front yard. 
 

c.  Yard, Interior Side: A yard which is parallel to the side lot line and which extends from the front building 

line to the rear building line. 

 

d.  Yard, Street Side: A yard which is parallel to the right-of-way abutting the lot line of greatest dimension 

and which extends from front building line to the rear building line. 

 

e.  Yard, Minimum Exterior or Required: That space remaining between the minimum required setback line 

and the property line for a particular front, rear, interior side or street side yard.



Appendix A   
 

Applications and Submittal Requirements   

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE A-1  

 
 

Appendix A 

 

Applications and Submittal Requirements 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
[Insert copies of all application  

forms and submittal requirements]



Appendix B   
 

Map Amendment Ordinances   

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE B-1  

 

 

 

Appendix B 

 

Map Amendment Ordinances 

 
Ordinance No. Ordinance Date Ordinance Description or Title  

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

 

 

 



Appendix C   
 

Text Amendment Ordinances   

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE C-1  

Appendix C 

 

Text Amendment Ordinances 

 
Ordinance No. Ordinance Date Ordinance Description or Title  

1054 5/10/99 Require Public Notice signs be posted on property being considered 

for a zoning change 

1058 7/26/99 Regulations for communication towers and antennas – See Attached 

1066 10/11/99 Regulations for metal buildings along certain corridors in the City 

1067 10/11/99 Regulations for the construction of fences 

1068 10/11/99 Regulations for building heights in the Central Business District 

1073 11/8/99 Regulations for lighting for gas stations canopies 

1087 7/10/00 Amend and simplify the Planned Unit Development (PUD) District 

1102 1/22/01 Amend definition of building height 

1127 6/11/01 Amend Single Family Residential Zoning District 

1127 6/11/01 Amend procedure for zoning newly annexed land 

1131 7/9/01 Amend Business District Requirements – Free-standing commercial 

structures 

1138 12/10/01 Establish height restrictions for the Airport Overlay District – See 

Attached 

1140 12/20/01 Establish noise attenuation requirements for the Airport Overlay 

District – See Attached 

1140 12/20/01 Regulations for the Use of property in the Airport Overlay District 

– See Attached 

1271 10/24/05 Amend Table 3-2: Dimension Table – Lots and Principle Structure 

1271 10/24/05 Amend Site Plan Review procedures 

1285 1/9/06 Amend Non-conforming structures 

1332 6/25/07 Amend Table 3-2: Dimension Table – Lots and Principle Structure 

1332 6/25/07 Amend Screening, Lighting & Landscape material 

1332 6/25/07 Amend Central Business District – Sidewalks 

1332 6/25/07 Amend definition of family 

1334 7/9/07 Amend Storage & Parking of Trailers & Commercial Vehicles 

1336 7/23/07 Establish definition of Short-Term Rental 

1360 5/12/08 Establish definition of A-Frame Signs 

1428 8/9/10 Amend Signs 

1433 8/27/10 Establish Tourism Resort District 

1451 7/25/11 Regulations for Pervious Parking 

1452 8/8/11 Regulations for Tree Preservation 

1454 8/8/11 Amend B-1 Zoning District to allow Restaurants 

1461 11/28/11 Amend Table 2-1 Procedures – Site Plan  

1464 12/12/11 Establish Medical Overlay District 

1509 4/14/14 Amend B-3a and B-3b to allow Multiple Family/Apartments  

1511 4/28/14 Amend B-2 to allow Hotel/Motels 

1537 5/11/15 Deletion of Sign Regulations 

1548 9/28/15 Amend Building Materials on Commercially Zoned Property 

1550 10/12/15 Establish Low Impact Development Requirements – See Attached 

1607 11/27/17 Amend definition of Building Height 

1611 1/8/18 Amend Central Business District 

1640 3/7/2020 Amend Public Utilities  

1651 6/10/2019 Amend M-1 district to allow Restaurants  

1652 6/10/2019 Establish definition for Waterfront Lots and Specifications 

   

   



Appendix C   
 

Text Amendment Ordinances   

FAIRHOPE ZONING ORDINANCE C-2  

   

Ordinance No. Ordinance Date Ordinance Description or Title  

1676 2/27/2020 Amend Director of Planning, Lot Coverage, Driveways, Accessory 

Structure Separation, Fences, PUDs, and Non-Conforming 

Structures 

1696 12/23/2020 Establish Waterfront Lot Dimension Standards 

1697 1/25/2021 Amend Non-Conforming Lots 

1702 2/22/2021 Establish Highway Transitional District 

1719 8/9/2021 Amend Article V, Section B.3 to allow short-term rentals in the 

CBD. 

1720 8/9/2021 Amend Article V, Section B to add that 50% of ground floor of a 

building in CBD shall be dedicated to commercial uses.  

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

 



Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

ORDINANCE NO. __ 1058

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 557
KNOWN AS THE ZONING ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH REGULATIONS
FOR COMMUNICATION TOWERS AND ANTENNAS PURSUANT TO THE
FEDERAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1996

WHEREAS, The City of Fairhope, Alabama has recognized the need to establish
regulations governing communication towers and antennas in order to protect the
heaith, safety, and welfare of the public, and

WHEREAS, The City of Fairhope, Alabama wishes to protect residential

neighborhoods and land uses from the potential negative impacts of communication
towers and antennas, and

WHEREAS, The City of Fairhope, Alabama desires to minimize adverse visual
impacts of communication towers and antennas through careful siting, design, and
camouflaging techniques, co-location when possibie, and

WHEREAS, The City of Fairhope, Alabama desires to protect property by ensuring
that construction of communications towers and antennas are sound, safe, and
professionally designed and constructed.

WHEREAS, The City of Fairhope, Alabama desires to have unsafe and no longer
used communication towers removed and dismantled.

_ BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRHOPE
ALABAMA, THAT:

1. The ordinance known as the Zoning Ordinance (No. 557), adopted 11 August
1975, is hereby amended to read as follows:

That, Article 7, Special Provisions be amended to insert as Section 70.7
Regulations for Communication Towers and Antennas.

70.71 Definitions:

Antenna Support Structure - Means any building or other structure that
exceeds the height regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.

Camouflage - Means any communications tower or antennae which is

designed to minimize a visual impact and to blend into the surrounding
environment.

Telecommunication facilities - Means any cables, wires, lines, wave guides,
antennas, or any other equipment of facilities associated with the transmission

or reception of communication which a person seeks to locate or has installed
upon or near a telecommunication facility.

FAA - Means Federal Aviation Agency.

Tower - Means a self supporting lattice, guyed, or monopole structure from
grade which supports telecommunications facilities.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

70.72 Exemptions

1) Any satellite earth station antenna that is 2 meters or less in
diameter in any area zoned industrial

2) Any satellite earth station one (1) meter or less in diameter
regardiess of zoning district category.

3) Any communication tower or antennae that is owned and operated
by an amateur or any other entity that is non-profit.

70.73 Regulations for the Development of a Communication Tower or Antennae

Height Limit - No communications tower or antennae shall be
constructed more than 130 feet above average grade level on any
parcel or in any zoning district within the corporate limits of the City of
Fairhope.

Permitted Districts -

M2 - General Industrial District: A communications tower that
does not exceed 65 feet above average grade level is permitted
by right in the M2- General industrial District. A tower greater
than 65 feet in height requires approval as a Special Exception
by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.

M1- Light Industrial: All communications towers in this district
require Special Exception approval by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.

Prohibited Districts - A communication tower or antenna is
prohibited in all remaining zoning districts, not specifically and
expressly indicated in this ordinance.

Special Exceptions Required by the Zoning Board of Adjustment -

M2- General Industrial District: All towers greater than 65 feet
require approval by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.

M1- light Industrial District: All towers in this district require
approval by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.

Preservation of Historic Structure / Site / Districts - A communication
tower or antenna is prohibited within 300 feet of a registered historic
structure, site, or a historic district as established by the City of
Fairhope, Alabama; Baldwin County, Alabama; the State of Alabama; or
the Federal Government.

70.74 Collocation Requirements
All communication towers or antennae which are 65 feet or greater

above grade level shall be designed to maximize shared use to the
maximum extent structurally possible.

PAGE 2 ORD. 1058

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

70.75 Separation Requirements
All communication towers and antennae shall conform to the separation
distances listed in Table 7-1. An antenna that collocates on an existing
communication tower or antenna is exempt from this requirement.

Table 7-1

 

Separation Distance

 

 

Less than 65' Between 65'-130'
4,000" 1,500 between
between towers*
towers*

 

Distance is from property
line to property line

 

 

 

 

 

Maximum Number of Towers - There shall only be one (1)
communication tower or antenna structure allowed per lot of record.

Safety - A communications tower or antenna shall be located in such a
manner that if the structure should fail and fail along it’s longest
dimension it will remain within property boundaries and avoid habitable
structures, publicly dedicated streets or alleys, utility lines, and other
towers or antennae.

70.76 Visual Impacts
Paint - All communications towers or antennae not requiring FAA
painting or marking shall have an exterior finish which is painted a dull
blue, gray, or black.

70.77 Landscaping

All communications towers or antennae shall conform to the
landscaping requirement of the zoning district it is located in.

70.78 Noise
No communications tower or antenna shall produce noise from
generators, air conditioners, or other machinery that impacts adjoining
property.

70.79 Ulumination

No communication tower or antenna shall have illumination other than
that required by the FAA.

70.80 Signage

Advertising signs of any type are prohibited to locate on any
communication tower or antenna regardless of height.

PAGE 3 ORD. 1058

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

70.81 Fences

Any fences constructed on site shall conform to the fence regulations
for the City of Fairhope.

70.82 Access and Parking

Access - All communication towers or antennae shall provide a paved

(concrete or asphalt) driving surface constructed to City standards to
the site.

Parking - a communication tower or antenna site shall provide one (1)
paved (concrete or asphalt) parking space.

70.83 Structural Requirements

All towers must be designed and certified by a registered professional
engineer that states that the design and plans of the proposed project
meets the minimum requirements established in the approved building
code for the City of Fairhope and the structural requirements of this
section.

Steps - All towers shall provide steps for access for inspection and
maintenance purposes.

Wind Load - All communications towers and antennae shall provide
information relative to the wind load design.

Materials - All communications towers or antennae shall be constructed
of suitable metal that provides the necessary strength and rigidity to
meet the technical requirements established in this section.

Guy Wires - If guy wires are proposed, they must be on the same lot of
record as the communication tower or antennae and shall not cross,

bisect, or encroach upon any property not owned or leased by the
applicant.

Ground - All communication towers and antennae shall be permanently
and effectively grounded.

70.84 Building Permit Submittal

Building Permit Required - All communication tower and antennae
construction requires a Building Permit.

All Building Permits must furnish and provide the following information:
1) The name, address and telephone number of the owner and
lessee of the parcel of land which the tower is proposed. If the
applicant is not the owner a notarized letter of permission for
building permit application is required.

2) The legal description of the property.

3) The names and addressees of all property owners within 300
feet of the subject property.

PAGE 4 ORD. 1058

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

4) Written documentation describing efforts to collocate on
existing communication towers and/ or antennae. Written
documentation that describes why the applicant cannot
collocate.

5) Written documentation and signed, sealed engineering plans
certifying that the structure wiil withstand the technical loads set
forth in this ordinance.

6) Certification from a professional engineer that states that the
proposed structure is capable of providing space for other users.

7) Written documentation from the Federal Aviation Agency
approving the proposed communications tower or antenna.

70.85 Removal of Unsafe Communications Tower or Antenna

All towers and antennas shall be maintained in compliance with
standards contained in applicable building codes so as to ensure the
structural integrity of the towers. If upon inspection by the Building
Official the tower is determined not to comply with the code standards
or constitutes a danger to persons or property and the tower is not
made safe or removed within ninety (90) days of notification from the
City notifying the owner of the unsafe tower or antenna, the City may

remove the tower or antenna and place a lien upon the property for the
costs of the removal.

70.86 Abandoned Towers

Any tower or antenna that is not operated for any continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of
such tower or antenna and the owner of the property where the tower
or antenna is located shall remove the tower or antenna within ninety
(90) days of notification from the City to remove the tower or antenna.

1) If the communication tower or antenna is not removed with the
notification time period, the City may remove the tower or antenna and
place a lien on the property for the cost of the removal.

2) If the owner of an abandoned communications tower or antenna
wishes to use the abandoned tower or antenna, the owner must first
apply for and receive all applicable permits and meet all of the
conditions of this article as if the tower or antenna were a new structure
and investment.

70.87 Appeal

Any applicant aggrieved by this ordinance has the legal right to appeal
administrative decisions to the Zoning Board of Adjustment. All appeals must
conform to the procedures established in the Zoning Ordinance of the City of
Fairhope and those prescribed in State Law.

PAGE 5 ORD. 1058

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

v2

COURIER

[

8 Published in
UBL ET.

 

HE FAIRHGP

Ord. No.
on

tT

2. Severability Clause

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance
is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this ordinance.

3. Effective Date

This ordinance shall be in full force upon its adoption and publication as
provided by law.

Adopted this__26" Day of____July , 1999

  

James P. Nix, Mayor

 
 

Attest:

Geniece W. Johnsq@f, City Clerk

PAGE 6 ORD. 1058

 

 

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

ORDINANCE NO. _1138

AN ORDINANCE REGULATING AND RESTRICTING THE HEIGHT
OF STRUCTURES AND OBJECTS OF NATURAL GROWTH, AND
OTHERWISE REGULATING THE USE OF PROPERTY IN THE
VICINITY OF THE FAIRHOPE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT BY CREATING
THE APPROPRIATE ZONES AND ESTABLISHING THE
BOUNDARIES THEREOF; ESTABLISHING HEIGHT LIMITS WITHIN
SUCH ZONES; PROVIDING FOR ENFORCEMENT; PROVIDING FOR
CHANGES IN THE RESTRICTIONS AND BOUNDARIES OF SUCH
ZONES; DEFINING CERTAIN TERMS USED HEREIN; REFERRING
TO THE FAIRHOPE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT ZONING MAP WHICHIS
INCORPORATED IN AND MADE A PART OF THIS ORDINANCE;
AND PROVIDING REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRHOPE,
ALABAMA, WHILE IN REGULAR SESSION AT THE FAIRHOPE CITY HALL ON
10 DECEMBER 2001, as follows:

ARTICLE 1. AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE

The City Council of the City of Fairhope, Alabama, in pursuance of the authority
granted by Titles 4, Chapter 6, Section 1 through 15, Code of Alabama, 1975, hereby
ordains and enacts into law the following sections.

ARTICLE 2. SHORT TITLE

This Ordinance shall be known as and may be cited as “The Airport Height Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Fairhope, Alabama.”

ARTICLE 3. FINDINGS

It is hereby found that an obstruction to navigable airspace has the potential for
endangering the lives and property of users of the Fairhope Municipal Airport and
property or occupants of land in its vicinity; that an obstruction may affect existing and
future instrument approach minimums of the Fairhope Municipal Airport; and that an
obstruction may reduce the size of areas available for the landing, take off, and
maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of the Fairhope
Municipal Airport and the public investment therein. Accordingly, it is declared:

1. That the creation, establishment or maintenance of an obstruction has the
potential of being a public nuisance and may injure the area served by the
Fairhope Municipal Airport;

2. That it is necessary in the interest of the public health, public safety, and general
welfare that the creation, establishment, or maintenance of obstructions that are a
hazard to air navigation be prevented;

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1138

10 December 2001

Page —2-

3. That the prevention of these obstructions should be accomplished, to the extent
legally possible, by the exercised of the police power without compensation;
and,

4. That the Fairhope Municipal Airport fulfills an essential community purpose.

ARTICLE 4. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY

1. Purpose —

The purpose of these regulations is to promote the health, safety and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the City by preventing the creation, establishment, or maintenance of
hazards to aircraft; preventing the destruction or impairment of the utility of the
Fairhope Municipal Airport and the public investments therein; and protecting the lives
and properties of owners or occupants of lands in the vicinity of said airport as well as
the users of said airport.

2. Applicability

The regulations set forth herein are applicable to all lands lying within all Approach,
Transitional, Horizontal, Conical Zones which are delineated on the Fairhope Municipal
Airport Height Zoning Map adopted as part of the Airport Height Zoning Ordinance of
the City of Fairhope, Alabama.

ARTICLE 5. DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of the Ordinance, certain terms and words are defined as follows:
(1) Airport - Fairhope Municipal Airport.

(2) Airport Board - The public advisory board serving the City of Fairhope in
matters relating to the airport.

(3) Established Airport Elevation - 94.0 feet above Mean Sea Level.

(4) | Approach Surface - A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the ends of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
Article 7 of this Ordinance. In plan the perimeter of the approach surface
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.

(5) Approach, Transitional, Horizontal, and Conical Zones - These zones are set forth
in Article 6 of the Ordinance.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1138
10 December 2001
Page ~3-

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(1)

(12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

(16)

Conical Surface - A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 4,000
feet.

Hazard to Air Navigation - An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.

Height - For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in
the Ordinance and shown on the airport zoning map, the datum shall be Mean
Sea Level unless otherwise specified.

Horizontal Surface - A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established airport
elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter of the
horizontal zone.

Nonconforming Use - Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth, or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance or an
amendment thereto,

Non-precision Instrument Runway - A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in non-
precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.

Precision Instrument Runway - A runway having an existing precision
instrument approach procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS)
equipment, a Precision Approach Radar (PAR), or Global Positioning System
(GPS) equipment. It also means a runway for which a precision approach(s) is
planned.

Obstruction - Any structure, growth, or other object, including a temporary or
mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in Article 7 of this
Ordinance.

Person - An individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
company, association, joint stock association or government entity; including a
trustee, a receiver, an assignee, or a similar representation of any of them.

Primary Surface -A surface longitudinally centered on the runway. The primary
surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of the runway. The width of the
primary surface 1,000 feet. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is
the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.

Runway - A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and take-off of
aircraft along its length.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1138
10 December 2001
Page —4-

(17)

(18)

(19)

(20)

Structure - An object, including a temporary or mobile object, constructed or
installed by man, including but without limitation, buildings, bridges, poles,
antennas, towers, cranes, smokestacks, earthen formations, and overhead
transmission lines.

Transitional Surfaces -~These surfaces extend outward and upward at right angles
to the runway centerline and the extended runway centerline at a slope of 7:1
from the sides of the primary surface and from the sides of the approach
surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision approach
surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface,
extend a distance of 5,000-feet measured horizontally from the edge of the
approach surface and at right angles to the extended runway centerline.

Tree - Any object of natural growth.

Visual Runway - A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.

ARTICLE 6. AIRPORT ZONES

To carry out the provisions of this Ordinance, there are hereby created and established

certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the Approach Surfaces,
Transitional Surfaces, Horizontal Surface, and Conical Surface as they apply to the
Fairhope Municipal Airport. Such zones are shown on the Fairhope Municipal Airport
Height Zoning Map which is attached to this Ordinance and made a part hereof. An
area located in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone
with the more restrictive height limitations. The various zones are hereby established
and defined as follows:

1,

Primary Zone -The primary zone extends 200 feet beyond each end of the
runway. The width of the primary zone is 1,000 feet. No structure or
obstruction will be permitted within the primary zone that is not essential to air
navigation or the movement of aircraft.

Non-precision Instrument Approach Zone - The inner edge of the Non-precision
Instrument Approach Zone coincides with the width of the primary zone and is
1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
4,000 feet at the horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary zone. Its
center line is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.

Precision Instrument Approach Zone - The inner edge of the Precision
Instrument Approach Zone coincides with the width of the primary zone and is
1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
16,000 feet at the horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary zone. Its
center line is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1138

10 December 2001

Page --5-

4. Transitional Zones - The transitional zones are the areas beneath the Transitional
Surfaces.

S. Horizontal Zones - The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of
10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of the
instrument runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to
those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional
zones,

6. Conical Zone - The conical zone is established as the area that commences at the

periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward there from a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.

ARTICLE 7. AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, no structure shall be erected, altered, or
maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this Ordinance
to a height exceeding the elevation of any corresponding approach, transitional,
horizontal, or conical surface. Applicable heights of the approach, transitional,
horizontal, or conical surfaces, at various distances from the primary zone, are
established as follows:

1,

Non-precision Instrument Approach Zone - The Non-precision Instrument
Approach Surface slopes thirty-four (34) feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway
centerline.

Precision Instrument Approach Zone- The Precision Approach Zone slopes fifty
(50) feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000
feet, with an additional 40,000 feet at a slope of forty (40) feet outward and one
foot upward.

Transitional Zones - Transitional surfaces slope seven (7) feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of 244 feet (MSL).
In addition to the foregoing, transitional surfaces for portions of the precision
approach surface project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface
and extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the
approach surface. These transitional surfaces slope seven (7) feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the
precision approach surface.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1138
10 December 2001
Page -6-

4.

Horizontal Zone - The horizontal surface for the Fairhope Municipal Airport is
established at 244 feet above mean sea level.

Conical Zone - The conical surface slopes twenty (20) feet outward for each foot
upward beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.

Excepted Height Limitations - Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed as
prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure or growth of any
tree to a height up to 35 feet above the surface of the land, except where such
structure or tree will be an obstruction to the height limitations described above.

ARTICLE 8. USE RESTRICTION

Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Ordinance, no use may be made of land or
water within any zone established by this Ordinance in such a manner as to create
physical or electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication
between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between
airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, create bird
strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, take off,
or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.

ARTICLE 9. NONCONFORMING USES

1,

Regulations Not Retroactive - The regulations prescribed in this Ordinance shall
not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or alteration
of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date
of this Ordinance, or otherwise interfere with continuance of a nonconforming
use. Nothing contained therein shall require any change in the construction,
alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which was begun prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, and is diligently
prosecuted to completion within a reasonable time after such effective date.

Marking and Lighting - Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this Section,
the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such obstruction
markings and obstruction lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport
the presence of such airport obstruction. Such obstruction markings and
obstruction lights shall be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of
the City of Fairhope, Alabama.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1138
10 December 2001
Page ~7-

ARTICLE 10. PERMITS

1. Future Uses - Except as specifically provided in a, b, and c hereunder, no
material change shall be made in the use of land, no structure shall be erected or
otherwise established, and no tree shall be planted in any prescribed zone hereby
created unless a permit has been applied for and granted. Each application for a
permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient
particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or
tree would conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is
in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent
with the provisions of this ordinance shall be granted unless a variance has been
approved in accordance with Article 10, Section 4, of this Ordinance.

a. In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and conical
zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy-five feet of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.

b. In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones but at a horizontal
distance of not less than 5,000 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall required for any tee or structure less than fifty feet of vertical
height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height prescribed for such approach zones.

c. In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond the
perimeter of the conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy-five feet of vertical height above the ground,
except when such tree or structures, because of terrain, land contour, or

topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for
such transition zones.

Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as permitting or
intending to permit any construction, or alteration of any structure, or growth of any tree
in excess of any of the height limits established by this Ordinance except as set forth in
Article 7, Section 6.

2. Existing Uses - No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or
creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree to
become a greater hazard to air navigation, than it was on the effective date of
this Ordinance or any amendments thereto or than it is when the application for a
permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be
granted.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1138
10 December 2001
Page —8-

3.

Nonconforming Uses Abandoned or Destroyed - Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been

abandoned or more than 50 percent destroyed, physically deteriorated, or
decayed (based on assessed value), no permit shall be granted that would allow
such tree or structure to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate
from the zoning regulations.

Variances - Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure,
or permit the growth of any tree or use property not in accordance with the
regulations prescribed in the Ordinance, may apply to the Board of Adjustments
and Appeals for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air navigation
facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such variances shall
be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the
regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief granted will not be
contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do
substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of the Ordinance.
Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of this Ordinance
may be considered by the Board of Adjustments and Appeals unless a copy of
the application and FAA determination has been furnished to the Airport Board
for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the Airport Board
does not respond to the application within 15 days after receipt, the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals may act on its own to grant or deny said application.

Obstruction Marking and Lighting - Any permit or variance granted may, if such
action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of the Ordinance and be
reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the
structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain, at the owner's
expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed proper by the
Board of Adjustments and Appeals, this condition may be modified to require
the owner to permit the Airport Authority of the City of Fairhope, at its own
expense, to install, operate, and maintain the necessary markings and lights.

Permit Application Requirements - An application for a permit shall be
accompanied by a plat or plan showing the exact location of the lot to be built
upon and the elevation, height, and location of the proposed building, structure,
or use to be placed thereon, together with such other information as the zoning
compliance officer may deem necessary to enforce properly the provisions of
this Ordinance.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1138
10 December 2001
Page —9-

ARTICLE 11. ENFORCEMENT

It shall be in the duty of the Zoning Administrator to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to
the Zoning Administrator upon a form published for that purpose. Applications
required by this Ordinance to be submitted to the Zoning Administrator shall be
promptly considered and granted or denied. Application for action by the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals shall be forthwith transmitted by the Zoning Administrator.

ARTICLE 12. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS

1.

Powers - Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have and exercise the
following powers:

a. To authorize in specific cases such as variance from the terms of the
Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the
Ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of the
Ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done. The Board
shall not grant a variance to the terms of this Ordinance if the hardship is
self-imposed by the applicant.

b. To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this Ordinance
upon which the Board of Adjustments and Appeals may be required to
pass under these regulations.

C. To hear and decide appeals form any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of
the Ordinance.

Basis for Actions - The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall make written
findings of facts and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and
its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any
order, requirement, decision, or Ordinance which comes before under the
provisions of this Ordinance.

Vote - The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator or decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this Ordinance,
or to effect variation to this Ordinance.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1138
10 December 2001
Page —10-

4, Retention of Documents - The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall not be
required to return the original papers acted upon by it, but it shall be sufficient to
return certified or sworn copies thereof, or of such portions thereof, as may be
called on by such writ. The return shall concisely set forth such other facts as
may be pertinent and material to show the grounds of the decision appealed from
and shall be verified.

ARTICLE 14. JUDICIAL REVIEW

Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals, or the
Zoning Administrator, or any governing body of a political subdivision which is of the
opinion that a decision of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals or the Zoning
Administrator is an improper application of airport zoning regulations of concern to
such governing body, may appeal to the Circuit Court of Baldwin County as provided in
Title 4, Chapter 6, Section 11, Code of Alabama, 1975.

ARTICLE 15, REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS

In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired,
converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this
Ordinance, the City Council, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.

ARTICLE 16. CONFLICTING REGULATIONS

In the event of conflict between the regulations of this Ordinance and any other
regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict be with respect to the
height of structures or trees, the use of land or any other matter, and whether such
regulations were adopted before or after the Airport Height Zoning Ordinance of the
City of Fairhope, Alabama, or by some other political subdivision, the more stringent
limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail.

ARTICLE 17. SEVERABILITY

If any of the provisions of this Ordinance, or the application thereof, to any person or
circumstances are held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the Ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end, the provisions of this Ordinance are declared to be
severable.

10

 




Lisa

Lisa

Ordinance No. 1138
10 December 2001
Page -11-

ARTICLE 18. AMENDMENTS

The City Council may, from time to time, amend this Ordinance after receiving a report
thereon from the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall prepare a
preliminary report on any proposed amendment and hold public hearings thereon before
submitting its final report to the City Council. Upon receipt of the final report from the
Planning Commission, the City Council shall cause the proposed amendment to be
published at least once a week for two consecutive weeks in advance of its passage in a
newspaper of general circulation within the City, or, if there is no such newspaper, then
by posting the same in four conspicuous places within the City, together with a notice
stating the time and place that the amendment is to be considered by the City Council,
and stating further that at such time and place all persons who desire shall have an
opportunity to be heard in opposition to or in favor of such regulations. No such
regulations shall become effective until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at
which parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard.

ARTICLE 19. EFFECTIVE DATE

This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force upon its adoption and publication as
required by law.

ADOPTED ON THE _10 _dayof December _, 2001

ea.

Tiyhothy M\ Kath, Mayor

 

  

fp
if

Mh

   

Le co

 

City Clerk

Ml
/

i

L

 

Ord. No. //37_ Published in
THE FAIRHOPE COURIER

on,

 

 

    

(wet, Lil Le
hnson, C i Clerk

 

11

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

ORDINANCE NO, 1140

AN ORDINANCE REGULATING THE USE OF PROPERTY AND ESTABLISHING
NOISE ATTENUATION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF
CERTAIN STRUCTURES IN THE VICINITY OF THE FAIRHOPE MUNICIPAL
AIRPORT BY CREATING AN AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT AND
ESTABLISHING THE BOUNDARIES THEREOF; DEFINING CERTAIN TERMS
USED HEREIN; REFERRING TO FAIRHOPE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT OVERLAY
ZONING MAP WHICH IS INCORPORATED IN AND MADE A PART OF THIS
ORDINANCE; PROVIDING FOR ENFORCEMENT; AND IMPOSING PENALTIES.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAIRHOPE, ALABAMA, WHILE
IN REGULAR SESSION AT THE FAIRHOPE CITY HALL ON DECEMBER 20, 2001, as follows:

 

ARTICLE I AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE

The City Council of the City of Fairhope, Alabama, in pursuance of the authority granted by Titles 4,
Chapter 6, Section 1 through 15, Code of Alabama, 1975, hereby ordains and enacts into law the
following sections.

ARTICLE 2 SHORT TITLE

This Ordinance shall be known as and may be cited as “The Airport Overlay District Zoning Ordinance of
the City of Fairhope, Alabama.”

ARTICLE 3 FINDINGS

It is hereby found that certain land uses are incompatible with noise generated by aircraft using the
Fairhope Municipal Airport and that these land uses have the potential to impair the existing and future
utility of the Fairhope Municipal Airport and the public investment therein. Accordingly, it is declared:

1. That the establishment and construction of noise sensitive developments in the vicinity
of the airport have the potential of limiting the existing and future utility of the airport
and may adversely affect the region served by the Fairhope Municipal Airport;

2. That noise sensitive developments in the vicinity of the airport have the potential to
become land uses incompatible with airport operations over time and it is necessary in
the interest of the public health, public safety, and general welfare that the creation or
establishment of incompatible land uses be prevented.

3. The prevention of the creation or establishment of incompatible land uses, and the
elimination, removal, alteration, and mitigation are public purposes.

4. That land in the vicinity of the airport has the potential of being exposed to sound levels
of 65 Ldn and higher.
5. That the construction of certain noise sensitive developments in the vicinity of the

airport should include outdoor-to-indoor noise attenuation features so as not to be
incompatible with existing and future noise levels.

6. That the Fairhope Municipal Airport fulfills an essential community purpose.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1140 Page —2-
ARTICLE 4 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY

1. Purpose

The purpose of these regulations is to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the public by
preventing the creation and establishment of land uses incompatible with the operations of the Fairhope
Municipal Airport and requiring the incorporation of outdoor-to-indoor noise attenuation measures for the
construction of certain structures within the boundary of the Airport Overlay District Zone.

For decades, residential housing has been constructed near airports, often without consideration of the
current and future airport noise impacts to homeowners. As a result, millions of federal, state, and local
dollars have been used to pay for noise mitigation programs in the United States.

It has been determined that current airport noise impacts to residents in the vicinity of the Fairhope
Municipal Airport are minimal. However, the potential for future conflict seems certain given that the
area's residential growth and continued plans to promote development in the vicinity of the airport. The
purpose of this plan is to promote the implementation of modest measures that will prevent conflicts
between future residential homeowners and the airport that could require expensive retroactive noise
insulation programs, residential relocation programs, and restrictions on the efficient operation of the
Fairhope Municipal! Airport.

2. Applicability

The regulations set forth herein are applicable to all lands lying within the Airport Overlay District Zone
which is delineated on the Fairhope Municipal Airport Overlay Zoning Map adopted as part of the Airport
Overlay District Zoning Ordinance of the City of Fairhope, Alabama.

ARTICLE 5 DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of the Ordinance, certain terms and words are defined as follows:
(1) Airport - Fairhope Municipal Airport.

(2) Airport Board - The advisory board of the City of Fairhope organized to consult the City on
matters concerning aviation and the operation of the airport.

(3) Avigation Easement - An easement over a parcel of land for the special purpose of protecting
navigable airspace and providing the right to generate noise and other effects caused by the
operation of aircraft over said property.

(4) Day-Night Sound Level (Ldn) - A cumulative aircraft noise index which estimates the exposure
to aircraft noise and relates the estimated exposure to an expected community response. The
Day-Night Sound Level noise metric assesses a 10 dB penalty to all noise events occurring
between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.

(5) Noise Sensitive Structure - An inhabitable or occupied structure including, but not necessarily
restricted to, temporary or mobile structures, apartment buildings, hospitals, schools, churches,
day care facilities, hotels, residential structures, condominiums, recreational facilities,
commercial buildings, and office buildings, in which the activities of the occupants may be
adversely affected by aircraft noise.

(6) Nonconforming Use - Any pre-existing structure or use of land which is inconsistent with the
provisions of the Ordinance or an amendment thereto.

(7) Obstruction - Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object, which exceeds a
limiting height set forth in Federal Aviation Regulations Part 77.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1140 Page -3-

(8) Person - An individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership, corporation, company, association,
Joint stock association or government entity; including a trustee, a receiver, an assignee, or a
similar representation of any of them.

(9) Runway - A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and take- off of aircraft along its
length.

(10) Structure- An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by man, including but
without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead
transmission lines.

ARTICLE 6 AIRPORT ZONES

To carry out the provisions of this Ordinance, there is hereby created and established an Airport Overlay
District Zone which includes all of the land lying within the boundary of the Airport Overlay District as it
applies to the Fairhope Municipal Airport. The Airport Overlay District is shown on the Fairhope
Municipal Airport Overlay District Map which is attached to this Ordinance and made a part hereof.

ARTICLE 7 AIRPORT NOISE OVERLAY DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, noise sensitive structures erected or substantially altered
within the boundary of the Airport Overlay District are required to incorporate outdoor-to-indoor noise
level reduction measures into the design and/or construction of the structure.

1, Noise Attenuation Performance Standards - The performance standard for the level of sound
attenuation for noise sensitive structures constructed in the Airport Overlay District Zone will be
equivalent to achieving an interior noise level of 45 dB (A-weighted) when the structure is
exposed to an outdoor noise exposure level of 65 Ldn or higher.

2. Noise Attenuation Methods - Noise reduction may be accomplished through design standards
and/or construction materials. Noise attenuation design measures and materials are referenced in
the City Standard Building Code of the City of Fairhope, as amended. In all cases, construction
must conform with the general requirements of the City Standard Building Code of the City of
Fairhope, as amended.

3. Noise Attenuation in Noise Sensitive Commercial Structures - Only those portions of
commercial structures associated with noise sensitive activities must incorporate noise level
reduction measures sufficient to achieve an interior noise level of 45 dB (A-weighted) when the
structure is exposed to an outdoor noise exposure level of 65 Ldn or higher.

4. Architect or Engineer Review — An architect or engineer must review the plans to determine if
the building design complies substantially with the intent of the ordinance.

5. Avigation Easement - The owner applying for approval to construct a noise sensitive structure or
residential subdivision within the area under the Runway Approach Surfaces located within the
Airport Noise Overlay District shall agree to grant to the Fairhope Airport Authority, without
compensation, an avigation easement for the passage of aircraft and the right to cause in all
airspace above the surface of the Grantor’s property such noise and other effects that may be
caused by aircraft operating at the Fairhope Municipal Airport.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1140 Page —-4-

ARTICLE 8 USE RESTRICTION

Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Ordinance, no use may be made of structures, land, or water
within the Airport Overlay District Zone established by this Ordinance in such a manner as to create
physical or electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication between the airport
and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in
the eyes of pilots using the airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or
interfere with the landing, take off, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.

ARTICLE 9 NONCONFORMING USES

1.

Regulations Not Retroactive - The regulations prescribed in this Ordinance shall not be
construed to require the removal, soundproofing, or other change or alteration of any noise
sensitive structure not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this Ordinance, or
otherwise interfere with continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing contained therein shall
require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any noise sensitive
structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance, and is diligently prosecuted to completion within a reasonable time after such
effective date.

Building Additions - A non-conforming noise sensitive structure existing at the time this
Ordinance is enacted may be extended or enlarged, provided the extension or enlargement to the
structure meets the requirements of this Ordinance.

Nonconforming Uses Abandoned or Destroyed - Whenever the Zoning Administrator determines
that a nonconforming noise sensitive structure has been abandoned, or more than 50 percent
destroyed, physically deteriorated, or decayed (based on assessed value), the rebuilding or repair
of the structure will require that the owner comply with the requirements of this Ordinance

ARTICLE 10 PERMITS

Permit Required - No noise sensitive structure shall be erected or otherwise established in the
Airport Overlay District hereby created unless a permit has been applied for and granted. Each
application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient
particularity to determine whether the resulting structure would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for
a use inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance shall be granted unless a variance has
been approved in accordance with Article 10, Section 2, of this Ordinance.

Variances - Any person desiring to erect or substantially alter a noise sensitive structure not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in the Ordinance, may apply to the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals for a variance from such regulations. Such variances shall be allowed
where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in
unnecessary hardship and relief granted will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create,
or have the potential to create, an incompatible land use, will do substantial justice, and will be in
accordance with the spirit of the Ordinance. Additionally, no application for variance to the
requirements of this Ordinance may be considered by the Board of Adjustments and Appeals
unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the Airport Authority for advice as to the
effect of the variance on the current and long-term operation of the airport. If the Airport
Authority does not respond to the application within 15 days after receipt, the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals may act on its own to grant or deny said application.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

 

 

Ordinance No. 1140 page —-5-

3. Permit Application Requirements - An application for a permit shall be accompanied by a plat or
plan showing the location of the lot to be built upon and the location of the proposed structure; a
certification from a registered architect, engineer, or acoustician that the plans for the structure
include noise attenuation measures adequate to meet the requirements of this Ordinance; together
with such other information as the Zoning Administrator may deem necessary to enforce properly
the provisions of this Ordinance.

ARTICLE 11 ENFORCEMENT

It shail be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed
herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the Zoning Administrator upon a form
published for that purpose. Applications required by this Ordinance to be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. Application for action by the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals shall be forthwith transmitted by the Zoning Administrator.

ARTICLE 12. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS

1, Powers - The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have and exercise the following powers:

 

a. To authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of the Ordinance as will not
be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of the Ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship, and
so that the spirit of the Ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done. The
Board shall not grant a variance to the terms of this Ordinance if the hardship is self-
imposed by the applicant.

b. To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this Ordinance upon which the
Board may be required to pass under these regulations.

c. To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of the Ordinance.

2. Basis for Actions - The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall make written findings of facts
and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal conclusions from such
facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order, requirement, decision, or Ordinance which
comes before under the provisions of this Ordinance.

3. Vote - The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Zoning Administrator or decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required
to pass under this Ordinance, or to effect variation to this Ordinance.

4, Retention of Documents - The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall not be required to return
the original papers acted upon by it, but it shall be sufficient to return certified or sworn copies
thereof or of such portions thereof as may be called on by such writ. The return shall concisely
set forth such other facts as may be pertinent and material to show the grounds of the decision
appealed from and shall be verified.

ARTICLE 14 JUDICIAL REVIEW

Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals or the Zoning
Administrator, or any governing body of a political subdivision which is of the opinion that a decision of
the Board of Adjustments and Appeals or the Zoning Administrator is an improper application of airport
zoning regulations of concern to such governing body, may appeal to the Circuit Court of Baldwin County
as provided in Title 4, Chapter 6, Section 11, Code of Alabama, 1975.

 




Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

Lisa

yaa pf OURIER

Hi
122

1140 _Pubtished in

THE FAIR

Ord, No
on

Ordinance No. 1140 Page -6-
ARTICLE 15 = REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS

In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or
maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this Ordinance, the City Council, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain,
correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.

ARTICLE 16 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS

In the event of conflict between the regulations of this Ordinance and any other regulations applicable to
the same area, whether the conflict be with respect to the use of land or any other matter, and whether
such regulations were adopted before or after the Airport Overlay District Zoning Ordinance of the City of
Fairhope, Alabama, or by some other political subdivision, the more stringent limitation or requirement
shall govern and prevail.

ARTICLE 17. SEVERABILITY

If any of the provisions of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances are
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the Ordinance which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end, the provisions of this
Ordinance are declared to be severable.

ARTICLE 18 AMENDMENTS

The City Council may, from time to time, amend this Ordinance after receiving a report thereon from the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall prepare a preliminary report on any proposed
amendment and hold public hearings thereon before submitting its final report to the City Council. Upon
receipt of the final report from the Planning Commission , the City Council shall cause the proposed
amendment to be published at least once a week for two consecutive weeks in advance of its passage ina
newspaper of general circulation within the City, or, if there is no such newspaper, then by posting the
same in four conspicuous places within the City, together with a notice stating the time and place that the
amendment is to be considered by the City Council, and stating further that at such time and place ail
persons who desire shall have an opportunity to be heard in opposition to or in favor of such regulations.
No such regulations shall become effective until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties
in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard.

ARTICLE 19 EFFECTIVE DATE
This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force upon its adoption and publication as required by law.

ADOPTED ON THE__20™ day of _DECEMBER __, 2001

-

/ _Gity Clerk

a

Timofhy M. ve Mayor

 

Attest:

   

 

 

 

Geniece W. Johnson, City

 

 

 

 




ORDINANCE NO. 1550 

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 1253 
KNOWN AS THE ZONING ORDINANCE 

The ordinance known as the Zoning Ordinance (No. 1253), adopted 27 June 2005, is 
changed and altered as described below; 

WHEREAS, the City of Fairhope Planning Commission directed the Planning Department 
to prepare amendments to our Zoning Ordinance; and, 

WHEREAS, the proposed amendments relate to revisions of the parking requirement section 
to include provisions for low impact development strategies and inserting additional 
definitions; and, 

WHEREAS, after the appropriate public notice and hearing of ZC 15.07, the Planning 
Commission of the City of Fairhope, Alabama has forwarded a favorable recommendation; 

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY 
OF FAIRHOPE, ALABAMA; 

THAT, Article 4, Site Design Standards, Section E Parking is hereby revised as follows: 

I . Insert a new subsection 3 that reads: 

a. Compact Car Parking Requirement: 
Compact car parking spaces shall be a minimum of 30% of the required 
parking spaces and no more than a maximum of 40% of the required 
parking spaces. Compact car spaces shall be grouped together to the 
greatest extent possible. Compact car spaces shall be designated by paint at 
the entrance of the parking stall. 

2. Insert a new subsection 4 that reads: 

a. Parking Dimension and Size: 
I) Standard parking lot dimensions 
2) Compact car parking dimensions 

width 
depth 

8' 
15 ' 

8' 
16.8' 

3. The existing subsection 4 is re-numbered to section 5 

4. Insert a new subsection 6 that reads: 

8' 
16.5' 

a. Low Impact Development (LID) Parking Requirements 

Landscaping is required for all parking lots. The interior parking lot 
landscaping requirements shall use LID techniques and be designed by an 
Alabama licensed Professional Engineer and an Alabama licensed Landscape 
Architect or designer. The following LID techniques shall be used in the 
interior of all parking lots containing 12 or more parking spaces. The LID 
parking requirement landscape plan will be reviewed in accordance with the 
Tree Ordinance. Any landscaping plan submitted in accordance with this 
subsection shall include technique 5 below and at least one of the other 
following techniques: 



Ordinance No. 1550 
Page -2-

I) First Flush Treatment: The LID landscaping design shall be sized 
appropriately to treat the first one inch of runoff into the receiving 
parking lot LID area. 

2) Bio-retention. 
3) Rain Garden. 
4) Vegetated Swale. 

5) Permeable Pavement Systems: Permeable pavement systems are a 
required LID technique. I 00% of parking provided over and above 
the minimum parking requirements shall be permeable pavement 
systems. Typical systems are brick pavers, pervious asphalt, and 
pervious concrete. Other systems may be approved if the design 
engineer provides adequate documentation that demonstrates the 
proposed technique is equally or more effective that the typical 
permeable systems listed. Approval of a proposed technique is at 
the sole discretion of the City during the permitting process. 

6) Tree and Ground Cover Plantings: When trees are required in a 
parking lot by the Tree Ordinance they shall be included and 
integrated into the LID design. Species shall be as approved by the 
City Horticulturist and must be suggested by the landscape 
architect or designer. There shall be no bare ground exposed and 
all ground cover proposed shall be integral to the success of LID 
techniques. All ground cover shall be as approved by the City 
Horticulturist and must be suggested by the landscape architect or 
designer. 

5. That Article lX Definitions and Interpretation Section C. defined terms are amended 
to add the following: 

a. Bioretention: This technique removes pollutants in stormwater runoff 
through adsorption, filtration , sedimentation, volatilization, ion exchange, 
and biological decomposition. A Bioretention Cell (BRC) is a depression in 
the landscape that captures and stores runoff for a short time, while 
providing habitat for native vegetation that is both flood and drought 
tolerant. BRCs are stormwater control measures (SCMs) that are similar to 
the homeowner practice, of installing rain gardens, with the exception that 
BRCs have an underlying specialized soil media and are designed to meet a 
desired stormwater quantity treatment storage volume. Peak runoff rates and 
runoff volumes can be reduced and groundwater can be recharged when 
bioretention is located in an area with the appropriate soil conditions to 
provide infiltration. Bioretention is normally designed for the water quality 
or "first flush" event, typically the first I" -1.5" of rainfall, to treat 
stormwater pollutants. 

b. Vegetated Swale: is a shallow, open-channel stabilized with grass or other 
herbaceous vegetation designed to filter pollutants and convey stormwater. 
Swales are applicable along roadsides, in parking lots, residential 
subdivisions, commercial developments, and are well suited to single-family 
residential and campus type developments. Water quality swales are 
designed to meet sheer stress targets for the design storm, may be 
characterized as wet or dry swales, may contain amended soils to infiltrate 
stormwater runoff, and are generally planted with turf grass or other 
herbaceous vegetation. 

c. First Flush : This is the given volume of water generated in the drainage 
area from the first I" to 1.5'' of rainfall. 



Ordinance No. 1550 
Page- 3-

d. Rain Garden: a shallow depression in a landscape that captures water and 
holds it for a short period of time to allow for infiltration, filtration of 
pollutants, habitat for native plants, and effective storm water treatment for 
small-scale residential or commercial drainage areas. Rain gardens use 
native plants, mulch, and soi l to clean up runoff. 

SEVERABILITY CLAUSE- if any part, section or subdivision ofthis ordinance shall be 
held unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such holding shall not be construed to 
invalidate or impair the remainder of this ordinance, which shall continue in full force and 
effect not withstanding such holding. 

EFFECTIVE DATE- This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its due adoption 
and publication as required by law. 

ADOPTED THIS 12TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 2015 

ATTEST: 

~n#.d~ 
City Clerk: 


	Cover
	Part 1 Article I, II, III - Without Cover
	Part 2 Article IV
	Part 3 Article V
	Part 4  Article VI
	Part 5 Article VII VIII IX
	Part 6 Attached Ordinances



