 

 

CODE COUNCIE

INTERNATIONAL

AO) NIN

A Member of the International Code Family*

 


 

—
INTERNATIONAL
CODE COUNCIL

 

  
  

> INTERNATIONAL

ZONING
CODE"

 

A Member of the International Code Family®

Become a Building Safety Professional Member
and Learn More about the Code Council

GO TO WWW.ICCSAFE.ORG for All Your Technical and
Professional Needs Including:

> Codes, Standards and Guidelines
» Membership Benefits
>» Education and Certification

» Communications on Industry News


2012 International Zoning Code“

First Printing: April 2011

ISBN: 978-1-60983-060-1 (sofi-cover edition)

COPYRIGHT © 2011
by
INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC.

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This 2012 Jnternational Zoning Code® is a copyrighted work owned by the International Code
Council, Inc. Without advance written permission from the copyright owner, no part of this book may be reproduced, distributed
or transmitted in any form or by any means, including, without limitation, electronic, optical or mechanical means (by way of
example, and not limitation, photocopying, or recording by or in an information storage retrieval system). For information on
permission to copy material exceeding fair use, please contact: Publications, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, IL
60478-5795. Phone 1-888-ICC-SAFE (422-7233).

Trademarks: “International Code Council,” the “International Code Council” logo and the “International Zoning Code” are
trademarks of the International Code Council, Inc.

PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.


Introduction

Development

Adoption

PREFACE

Internationally, code officials recognize the need for consistent and uniform zoning ordinances. The
International Zoning Code®, in this 2012 edition, is designed to meet this need through model code
regulations that safeguard the public health and safety in all communities, large and small.

This comprehensive zoning code establishes minimum regulations for zoning ordinances. This
2012 edition is fully compatible with all of the International Codes® (I-Codes®) published by the
International Code Council (ICC)®, including the international Building Code®, international Energy
Conservation Code®, International Existing Building Code®, International Fire Code®, international
Fuel Gas Code®, International Green Construction Code™ (to be available March 2012), international
Mechanical Code®, ICC Performance Code®, International Plumbing Code®, International Private
Sewage Disposal Code®, international Property Maintenance Code®, International Residential
Code®, International Swimming Pool and Spa Code™ (to be available March 2012), and International
Wildland-Urban interface Code®.

The International Zoning Code provides many benefits, among which is the model code develop-
ment process that offers an international forum for code officials and other interested parties to
discuss performance and prescriptive code requirements. This forum provides an excellent arena to
debate proposed revisions. This model code also encourages international consistency in the appli-
cation of provisions.

The first edition of the International Zoning Code (1998) was the culmination of an effort initiated in
1996 by a code development committee appointed by ICC and consisting of representatives of the
three statutory members of the International Code Council at that time: Building Officials and Code
Administrators International, Inc. (BOCA), International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) and
Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI). The intent was to draft a comprehensive set
of zoning regulations for jurisdictions that have a need for a zoning ordinance and desire that it be
compatible with the model codes adopted by the jurisdiction. This 2012 edition presents the code
as originally issued, with changes reflected through the previous 2009 edition. A new edition of the
code is promulgated every three years.

This code is founded on principles intended to establish provisions consistent with the scope of a
zoning code that adequately protects public health, safety and welfare; provisions that do not
unnecessarily increase construction costs; provisions that do not restrict the use of new materials,
products or methods of construction; and provisions that do not give preferential treatment to par-
ticular types or classes of materials, products or methods of construction.

The International Zoning Code is available for adoption and use by jurisdictions internationally. Its
use within a governmental jurisdiction is intended to be accomplished through adoption by refer-
ence in accordance with proceedings establishing the jurisdiction’s laws. At the time of adoption,
jurisdictions should insert the appropriate information in provisions requiring specific local informa-
tion, such as the name of the adopting jurisdiction. These locations are shown in bracketed words in
small capital letters in the code and in the sample ordinance. The sample adoption ordinance on
page xi addresses several key elements of a code adoption ordinance, including the information
required for insertion into the code text.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” iii


Maintenance

The International Zoning Code is kept up to date through the review of proposed changes submitted
by code enforcing officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested par-
ties. Proposed changes are carefully considered through an open code development process in
which all interested and affected parties may participate.

The contents of this work are subject to change both through the Code Development Cycles and
the governmental body that enacts the code into law. For more information regarding the code
development process, contact the Codes and Standards Development Department of the Interna-
tional Code Council.

While the development procedure of the international Zoning Code assures the highest degree
of care, ICC, its members and those participating in the development of this code do not accept any
liability resulting from compliance or noncompliance with the provisions because the ICC does not
have the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with the contents of this code. Only
the governmental body that enacts the code into law has such authority.

Code Development Committee Responsibilities
(Letter Designations in Front of Section Numbers or Definitions)

In each code development cycle, proposed changes to the code are considered at the Code Devel-
opment Hearings by the International Property Maintenance/Zoning Code Development Commit-
tee, whose action constitutes a recommendation to the voting membership for final action on the
proposed change. Proposed changes to a code section that has a number beginning with a letter in
brackets are considered by a different code development committee. For example, proposed
changes to definitions that have [B] in front of them (e.g., [B] DWELLING UNIT) are considered by
one of the International Building Code Development Committees (IBC-General) at the code devel-
opment hearings.

The content of sections or definitions in this code that begin with a letter designation is main-
tained by another code development committee in accordance with the following:

[A] = Administrative Code Development Committee and

[B]

International Building Code Development Committee (IBC—Fire Safety, General, Means
of Egress or Structural).

Note that, for the development of the 2015 edition of the |-Codes, there will be two groups of
code development committees and they will meet in separate years. The groupings are as follows:

 

 

Group A Codes Group B Codes
(Heard in 2012, Code Change Proposals (Heard in 2013, Code Change Proposals
Deadline: January 3, 2012) Deadline: January 3, 2013)
International Building Code Administrative Provisions (Chapter 1 all codes except

IRC and ICC PC, administrative updates to currently ref-
erenced standards, and designated definitions)

 

 

 

 

International Fuel Gas Code International Energy Conservation Code
International Mechanical Code International Existing Building Code
International Plumbing Code International Fire Code

International Private Sewage International Green Construction Code

Disposal Code

 

ICC Performance Code

 

International Property Maintenance Code
International Residential Code

 

 

International Swimming Pool and Spa Code

 

International Wildland-Urban Interface Code

 

 

 

 

International Zoning Code

 

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


Code change proposals submitted for code sections that have a letter designation in front of
them will be heard by the respective committee responsible for such code sections. Because differ-
ent committees will meet in different years, it is possible that some proposals for this code will be
heard by a committee in a different year than the year in which the primary committee for this code
meets.

For example, the definition of “dwelling unit” in Section 202 is designated as the responsibility of
the International Building Code Development Committee. This committee will hold its code devel-
opment hearings in 2012 to consider all code change proposals to the international Building Code.
Therefore, any proposals to this definition in Chapter 2 will be needed to be submitted by January 3,
2012, for consideration in 2012 by the appropriate International Building Code Committee (IBC-
General).

Note that every section of Chapter 1 of this code is designated as the responsibility of the Admin-
istrative Code Development Committee, and that committee is part of the Group B portion of the
code hearings. This committee will hold its code development hearings in 2013 to consider all code
change proposals for Chapter 1 of this code and proposals for Chapter 1 of all |-Codes except the
International Residential Code and the ICC Performance Code. Therefore, any proposals received for
Chapter 1 of this code will be deferred for consideration in 2013 by the Administrative Provisions
Committee.

It is very important that anyone submitting code change proposals understand which code devel-
opment committee is responsible for the section of the code that is the subject of the code change
proposal. For further information on the code development committee responsibilities, please visit
the ICC web site at www.iccsafe.org/scoping.

Marginal Markings

Italicized Terms

There have been no technical revisions between the 2009 and 2012 editions of this code. Therefore,
there are no marginal markings in this edition.

Selected terms set forth in Chapter 2, Definitions, are italicized where they appear in code text.
Such terms are not italicized where the definition set forth in Chapter 2 does not impart the
intended meaning in the use of the term. The terms selected have definitions which the user should
read carefully to facilitate better understanding of the code.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” Vv


vi

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


EFFECTIVE USE OF THE INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE

Effective Use of the International Zoning Code

The International Zoning Code (IZC) is a model code that regulates minimum zoning requirements
for new buildings.

The IZC is a planning and community development document. The IZC is intended to provide for
the arrangement of compatible buildings and land uses and establish provisions for the location of
all types of uses, in the interest of the social and economic welfare of the community.

Arrangement and Format of the 2012 IZC

Before applying the requirements of the IZC, it is beneficial to understand its arrangement and for-
mat. The IZC, like other codes published by ICC, is arranged and organized to follow sequential steps
that generally occur during a plan review or inspection. The IZC is divided into 14 different parts:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chapters Subjects
1 Scope and Administration
2 Definitions
3 Use Districts
4 Agricultural Zones
5 Residential Zones
6 Commercial and Commercial/Residential Zones
7 Factory/Industrial Zones
8 General Provisions
9 Special Regulations
10 Sign Regulations
11 Nonconforming Structures and Uses
12 Conditional Uses
13 Planned Unit Development
14 Referenced Standards

 

 

 

 

The following is a chapter-by-chapter synopsis of the scope and intent of the provisions of the
International Zoning Code:

Chapter 1 Scope and Administration. This chapter contains provisions for the application,
enforcement and administration of subsequent requirements of the code. In addition to establish-
ing the scope of the code, Chapter 1 identifies which buildings and structures come under its pur-
view. Chapter 1 is largely concerned with maintaining “due process of law” in enforcing the zoning
criteria contained in the body of the code. Only through careful observation of the administrative
provisions can the building official reasonably expect to demonstrate that “equal protection under
the law” has been provided.

Chapter 2 Definitions. All terms that are defined in the code are listed alphabetically in Chapter
2. While a defined term may be used in one chapter or another, the meaning provided in Chapter 2
is applicable throughout the code.

Additional definitions regarding signs are found in Chapter 10. These are not listed in Chapter 2.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” vii


viii

Where understanding of a term’s definition is especially key to or necessary for understanding of
a particular code provision, the term is shown in italics wherever it appears in the code. This is true
only for those terms that have a meaning that is unique to the code. In other words, the generally
understood meaning of a term or phrase might not be sufficient or consistent with the meaning pre-
scribed by the code; therefore, it is essential that the code-defined meaning be known.

Guidance regarding tense, gender and plurality of defined terms as well as guidance regarding
terms not defined in this code is provided.

Chapter 3 Use Districts. Chapter 3 identifies classifications for typical zoning districts and pro-
vides for the application of minimum district areas, in order to regulate and restrict the locations for
uses and locations of buildings designated for specific areas and to regulate the minimum required
areas or yards and courts and important open-areas property.

This chapter also requires coordination of the established zoning districts with approved zoning
maps. Further, this chapter also contains information on the minimum requirements for conditional
use areas, which includes particular considerations as to their proper location to adjacent, estab-
lished or intended uses, or to the planned growth of the community.

Chapter 3, along with Chapters 4 through 7 establish the criteria to classify properties into com-
patible use districts.

Chapter 4 Agricultural Zones. Chapter 4 identifies three divisions of agricultural zones includ-
ing any area to be designated as open space, agricultural uses and land used for public parks and
similar uses. After the specific zoning areas are established, this chapter provides minimum bulk
zoning regulations to establish lot area, structure-to-open space density, lot dimensions, and set-
back and building height requirements.

For example, within an agricultural zone 2 there is a limit of one dwelling unit per 10 acres with a
minimum lot area of 10 acres. Lot dimensions are required to be 400 feet wide by 400 feet deep
minimum for this parcel of ground.

Chapter 5 Residential Zones. The objective of Chapter 5 is to define residential uses for a juris-
diction to utilize in arranging compatible land uses in order to achieve the maximum social and eco-
nomic benefit for the community. This chapter identifies three divisions of residential zones
including single-family, two-family and multiunit residential uses. Once the particular zones are
established, provisions for the minimum bulk zoning regulations, such as lot area, structure-to-
Open-space density, lot dimensions, setback and building height requirements, are indicated. For
example, based on Table 502.1, a Division 2b residential lot would restrict the overall building
height to 35 feet and establish a minimum front yard of 15 feet, side yard of 5 feet, and rear yard of
20 feet while requiring a minimum overall lot size of 6,000 square feet.

Chapter 6 Commercial and Commercial/Residential Zones. Chapter 6 identifies four divi-
sions of commercial zones, including C1, which includes minor automotive repair and automotive
fuel dispensing facilities; C2, which includes light commercial and group care facilities; C3, which
includes amusement centers including bowling alleys, golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses, ice
skating rinks, pool and billiard halls; and C4, which includes major automotive repair, manufacturing
and commercial centers. This chapter also contains two divisions of commercial/residential zones
that accommodate residential uses in light and medium commercial zones (Divisions 1 and 2). Once
the particular zones are established, Chapter 6 provides specific minimum bulk zoning restrictions
to include lot area, structure-to-open-space density, lot dimensions, and setback and building
height requirements.

Chapter 7 Factory/Industrial Zones. The objective of Chapter 7 is to define factory/industrial
uses for a jurisdiction to utilize in arranging compatible land uses for the social and economic wel-
fare of the community. This chapter identifies three divisions of factory/industrial zones including a
range of factory/industrial zones from light manufacturing or industrial, such as warehouses and
auto body shops (Division 1), to heavy manufacturing or industrial, such as automotive dismantling
and petroleum refineries (Division 3). Once the particular zones are established, Chapter 7 provides
minimum bulk zoning regulations that establish lot area, structure-to-open-space density, lot
dimensions, and setback and building height requirements.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


Chapter 8 General Provisions. Chapter 8 contains general zoning provisions along with require-
ments for elements that are common to most uses recognized by this code, to include parking stall
dimensions, driveway width requirements, allowable projections into required yard spaces, land-
scaping and loading space size requirements. This chapter also establishes the minimum number of
required off-street parking spaces for specific uses, fence height requirements specific to front, side
and rear yard locations, accessory buildings and minimum separation distance requirements from
accessory buildings to the main building on the same lot, maximum allowable projection encroach-
ment into the required front and rear yards, and landscaping requirements for new buildings and
additions and maintenance requirements for existing landscaping. Chapter 8 also provides for the
jurisdiction to specifically review and approve the availability of essential services infrastructure for
all new projects with a focus on sewer, potable water, street lighting and fire hydrants.

Chapter 9 Special Regulations. Chapter 9 recognizes two unique uses, home office and adult-
use businesses, and establishes requirements to address each based on their characteristics and
potential impact related to other uses/zoning districts. With respect to home occupations, Chapter
9 contains restrictions that include maximum allowable floor area for both the home occupation
and the storage for same, exterior display and patron and parking allowances.

With respect to adult uses, Chapter 9 requires adult uses to obtain a conditional-use permit and
contains a list of four specific location requirements for adult uses.

Chapter 10 Sign Regulations. The primary purpose of Chapter 10 is to establish the regulation
for the use of signs and sign structures. This chapter addresses the various sign types, provides
numerous figures that show examples of general signs, roof signs, wall signs and fascia signs, and
addresses the computation methodology of sign area for code compliance. Chapter 10 also contains
the general provisions that apply to sign placement, maintenance, repair and removal, as well as
requirements for wall, free-standing, directional and temporary signs.

Chapter 11 Nonconforming Structures and Uses. Chapter 11 contains provisions for noncon-
forming structures and uses regulated under this code. The primary purpose of this chapter is to
ensure that existing structures and current land use practices legally established prior to the adop-
tion of the International Zoning Code are allowed to be continued. This chapter also describes the
criteria that a nonconforming structure or use must meet in order to be allowed to be maintained
unchanged. Specific criteria is provided for the discontinuance of a nonconforming use to include
vacancy and damage. Chapter 11 also describes the restrictions on enlargements and modifications
to a nonconforming structure.

 

Chapter 12 Conditional Uses. Chapter 12 establishes the requirements for conditional uses
based on the occasional need for a use not normally permitted in a particular zoning district and
due to the unique characteristics and service that use provides to the public. This chapter contains
requirements for conditional use permits, minimum documentation required to support a condi-
tional use property, and fees. Further, Chapter 12 establishes the criteria for expiration and revoca-
tion of conditional use permit and includes a provision that allows the applicant to submit an
amendment to a conditional use permit.

Chapter 13 Planned Unit Development. Chapter 13 identifies the code requirements for
planned unit developments and describes the important role of the planning commission. The pri-
mary purpose of this chapter is to permit and encourage diversification, variation, and imagination
in the relationship of uses, structures, open spaces and heights of structures. It is further intended
to encourage more rational and economic development with relationship to public services, and to
encourage and facilitate the preservation of open lands. This chapter contains the specific condi-
tions for planned unit developments, including area, uses, ownership and open space requirements.

Chapter 14 Referenced Standards. The code contains numerous references to standards that
are used to regulate materials and methods of construction. Chapter 14 contains a comprehensive
list of all standards that are referenced in the code. The standards are part of the code to the extent
of the referenced standard. Compliance with the referenced standard is necessary for compliance
with this code. By providing specifically adopted standards, the construction and installation
requirements necessary for compliance with the code can be readily determined. The basis for code
compliance is, therefore, established and available on an equal basis to the code official, contractor,
designer and owner.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” ix


This chapter is organized to facilitate locating specific standards, by listing all of the referenced
standards, alphabetically, by acronym of the promulgating agency of the standard. Each agency’s
standards are then listed in either alphabetical or numeric order based upon the standard identifi-
cation. The list also contains the title of the standard; the edition (date) of the standard referenced;
any addenda included as part of the ICC adoption; and the section or sections of this code that ref-
erenced the standard.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


LEGISLATION

The Jnternational Codes are designed and promulgated to be adopted by reference by legislative action. Jurisdictions wishing to
adopt the 2012 International Zoning Code as an enforceable regulation governing structures and premises should ensure that
certain factual information is included in the adopting legislation at the time adoption is being considered by the appropriate
governmental body. The following sample adoption legislation addresses several key elements, including the information
required for insertion into the code text.

SAMPLE LEGISLATION FOR ADOPTION OF
THE INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE
ORDINANCE NO.

AIN] [ORDINANCE/STATUTE/REGULATION] of the JURISDICTION] adopting the 2012 edition of the /nternational Zoning Code,
regulating and governing the development, erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, movement, removal, demoli-
tion, conversion, occupancy, use, height, area and maintenance of all buildings, structures and lots in the JURISDICTION]; pro-
viding for the issuance of permits, including conditional use permits, and collection of fees therefor; repealing [ORDINANCE/
STATUTE/REGULATION] No. of the [JURISDICTION] and all other ordinances or parts of laws in conflict therewith.

The [GOVERNING BODY] of the [JURISDICTION] does ordain as follows:

 

Section 1. That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the [TITLE OF JURISDICTION’S KEEPER
OF RECORDS] of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], being marked and designated as the Jnternational Zoning Code, 2012 edition, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Zoning Code of the JURISDICTION], in the state of
[STATE NAME] for regulating and governing the development, erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, movement,
removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, use, height, area and maintenance of all buildings, structures and lots in the [JURIS-
DICTION]; providing for the issuance of permits, including conditional use permits, and collection of fees therefor; and each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Zoning Code on file in the office of the [JURISDICTION]
are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation, with the additions, insertions, dele-
tions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section 3 of this ordinance.

Section 2. (Incorporate penalties for violations)
Section 3. The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert [NAME OF JURISDICTION]
Section 109.2.2. Insert [NUMBER OF WORKING DAYS]
Table 302.1. Insert [MINIMUM AREAS]
Section 1008.1.1. Insert [SIGN AREA]
Section 1008.1.3. Insert [SIGN AREAS IN TWO LOCATIONS]
Table 1008.1.1(1). Insert [SIGN AREAS IN THREE LOCATIONS]
Table 1008.1.1(2). Insert [PERCENTAGE OF BUILDING ELEVATION IN THREE LOCATIONS]
Table 1008.1.2. Insert [NO. OF SIGNS, HEIGHT AND AREA IN 10 LOCATIONS]
Section 1008.2.1. Insert [SIGN AREAS IN EIGHT LOCATIONS]
Section 1008.2.2. Insert [SIGN HEIGHTS AND AREA IN 10 LOCATIONS]
Section 1008.2.3. Insert [SIGN AREAS IN THREE LOCATIONS]
Section 1008.2.5. Insert [SIGN HEIGHT AND AREA IN TWO LOCATIONS]
Section 1008.2.6. Insert [SIGN HEIGHT AND AREA IN TWO LOCATIONS]
Section 1008.3.3. Insert [SIGN AREA, HEIGHT, PROJECTION AND VERTICAL DISTANCE IN SIX LOCATIONS]
Section 1008.3.4. Insert [SIGN AREA AND VERTICAL DISTANCE IN TWO LOCATIONS]
Section 1008.3.5. Insert [SIGN HEIGHT IN TWO LOCATIONS]

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” xi


Section 4. That [ORDINANCE/STATUTE/REGULATION] No. of [JURISDICTION] entitled [FILL IN HERE THE COMPLETE
TITLE OF THE LEGISLATION OR LAWS IN EFFECT AT THE PRESENT TIME SO THAT THEY WILL BE REPEALED BY DEFINITE MEN-
TION] and all other ordinances or parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.

Section 5. That if any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this legislation is, for any reason, held to be unconstitu-
tional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The [GOVERNING BODY] hereby
declares that it would have passed this law, and each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared unconstitutional.

Section 6. That nothing in this legislation or in the Zoning Code hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceed-
ing impending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing,
under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in Section 4 of this law; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired or affected by this legislation.

Section 7. That the [JURISDICTION’S KEEPER OF RECORDS] is hereby ordered and directed to cause this legislation to be pub-
lished. (An additional provision may be required to direct the number of times the legislation is to be published and to specify
that it is to be in a newspaper in general circulation. Posting may also be required.)

Section 8. That this law and the rules, regulations, provisions, requirements, orders and matters established and adopted hereby
shall take effect and be in full force and effect [TIME PERIOD] from and after the date of its final passage and adoption.

xii 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER1 SCOPEAND ADMINISTRATION... 1
PART 1—SCOPE AND APPLICATION. ............ 1
Section

101 General 00... eee ee 1
102 Fees... eens 1

PART 2—ADMINISTRATION AND

ENFORCEMENT...........0..0.0.000008 1
103 Existing Buildings and Uses. ................. 1
104 Duties and Powers of the

Zoning Code Official .............0...000. 1
105 Planning Commission. ...................008 2
106 Compliance with the Code................00. 3
107 Board of Adjustment .............0..00..004 3
108 Hearing Examiner............00.....00..004 4
109 Hearings, Appeals and Amendments........... 4
110 Violations ....... 00000. c eee eee eee 5
111 Permits and Approvals.........0.0......000005 5
CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS..............0..004 7
Section
201 General... 0.0... eee 7
202 General Definitions .....................008 7
CHAPTER3 USEDISTRICTS................. 13
Section
301 District Classifications .............0...000. 13
302 Minimum Areas for Zoning Districts.......... 13
303 Zoning Map ............ 00.00 cee eee eee 13
304 Annexed Territory ..........00..000.0000008 13
305 Conditional Uses ...............000.000008 13
CHAPTER4 AGRICULTURAL ZONES ........ 15
Section
401 Agricultural Zones Defined ................. 15
402 Bulk Regulations ............0...0..000008 15
CHAPTER5 RESIDENTIAL ZONES.......... 7
Section
501 Residential Zones Defined.................. 17
502 Bulk Regulations ............0...0..000008 17

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

 

CHAPTER6 COMMERCIAL AND

COMMERCIAL/

RESIDENTIAL ZONES. ..........
Section
601 Commercial and Commercial/Residential

Zones Defined ...........00.00000 002 eee

602 Bulk Regulations ................00...000.
CHAPTER7 FACTORY/AINDUSTRIAL

ZONES 1.0.00. 0 ccc cece
Section
701 Factory/Industrial Zones Defined ............
702 Bulk Regulations ...................00.008
CHAPTER8 GENERAL PROVISIONS.........
Section
801 Off-street Parking..............0.0...00005
802 Fence Heights. ...............00.00..00005
803 Location of Accessory Buildings.............
804 Allowable Projections into Yards ............
805 Landscaping Requirements .................
806 Loading Spaces ............000.000 0000008
807 PassagewayS.... 0.00.0. c cece eee eee
808 Approval for and Availability of

Essential Services. ........0...0000000005

CHAPTER9 SPECIAL REGULATIONS........
Section
901 Home Occupations. .........00... 00000000
902 Adult Uses ..... 0.0.0.0. c cece eee eee
CHAPTER 10 SIGN REGULATIONS............
Section
1001 = Purpose... 0... eee eee
1002 ~—- Definitions..............0...0. 0000000008
1003 General Sign Types ............0...00.0008
1004 General Provisions. ................0..000.
1005 = Exempt Signs...................0000 0000.
1006 = Prohibited Signs... .......0............000.
1007 Permits... 2.2... eee
1008 = Specific Sign Requirements.................
1009 Signs for Development Complexes...........

xiii


INDEX

CHAPTER 11 NONCONFORMING

STRUCTURES AND USES ........ 45
Section
1101) General... eee ee 45
1102  Discontinuance........... 00.00... c ee eee ee 45
1103 Enlargements and Modifications ............. 45
CHAPTER 12 CONDITIONAL USES............ 47
Section
1201) General... eee eee AT
1202 = Applications... 0.0... eee AT
1203 = Public Hearing ..............0...0..00.0008 AT
1204 Determination...........00. 000.000 cee eee AT
1205 Expiration and Revocation.................. AT
1206 Amendments........... 0.00000 eee eee ee eee AT
1207 Conditional Use Review Criteria............. AT

CHAPTER 13 PLANNED UNIT

DEVELOPMENT ...............5 49
Section
1301 General... 0... eee 49
1302  Conditions.............0.0 00.000. 0c cee 49
1303 Planning Commission Determination. ......... 50
1304 Required Contributions .................... 50
1305 Planning Commission Action................ 50
CHAPTER 14 REFERENCED STANDARDS. ..... 51
INDEX «1.0. ce eens 53
xiv

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 1
SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION

PART 1—SCOPE AND APPLICATION

SECTION 101
GENERAL

[A] 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Zon-
ing Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], hereinafter referred to
as “this code.”

[A] 101.2 Intent. The purpose of this code is to safeguard the
health, property and public welfare by controlling the design,
location, use or occupancy of all buildings and structures
through the regulated and orderly development of land and
land uses within this jurisdiction.

[A] 101.3 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to
the construction, addition, alteration, moving, repair and use
of any building, structure, parcel of land or sign within a
jurisdiction, except work located primarily in a public way,
public utility towers and poles and public utilities unless spe-
cifically mentioned in this code.

Where there is conflict between a general requirement and
a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be
applicable. Where, in any specific case, different sections of
this code specify different requirements, the more restrictive
shall govern.

In fulfilling these purposes, this ordinance is intended to
benefit the public as a whole and not any specific person or
class of persons. Although, through the implementation,
administration and enforcement of this code, benefits and det-
riments will be enjoyed or suffered by specific individuals,
such is merely a byproduct of the overall benefit to the whole
community. Therefore, unintentional breaches of the obliga-
tions of administration and enforcement imposed on the juris-
diction hereby shall not be enforceable in tort.

If any portion of this code is held invalid for any reason,
the remaining herein shall not be affected.

SECTION 102
FEES

[A] 102.1 Fees. A fee for services shall be charged. All fees
shall be set by the jurisdiction and schedules shall be avail-
able at the office of the code official.

PART 2—ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

SECTION 103
EXISTING BUILDINGS AND USES

[A] 103.1 General. Lawfully established buildings and uses
in existence at the time of the adoption of this code shall be

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

permitted to have their existing use or occupancy continued,
provided such continued use is not dangerous to life.

[A] 103.2 Additions, alterations or repairs. Additions,
alterations or repairs shall be permitted to be made to any
building or use without requiring the existing building or use
to comply with the requirements of this code, provided the
addition, alteration or repair conforms to that required for a
new building or use.

[A] 103.3 Maintenance. All buildings or uses, both existing
and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained. The
owner or designated agent shall be responsible for the main-
tenance of buildings and parcels of land. To determine com-
pliance with this section, the code official shall be permitted
to cause any structure or use to be inspected.

[A] 103.4 Moved and temporary buildings, structures and
uses. Buildings or structures moved into or within the juris-
dictions shall comply with the provisions of this code for new
buildings and structures.

Temporary buildings, structures and uses such as review-
ing stands and other miscellaneous structures, sheds, cano-
pies or fences used for the protection of the public shall be
permitted to be erected, provided a special approval is
received from the code official for a limited period of time.
Temporary buildings or structures shall be completely
removed upon the expiration of the time limit stated in the
permit.

[A] 103.5 Illegal uses. Uses that were illegally established
prior to the adoption of this code shall remain illegal.

SECTION 104
DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE ZONING CODE
OFFICIAL

[A] 104.1 General. This section establishes the duties and
responsibilities for the zoning code official and other officials
and agencies, with respect to the administration of this code.
The zoning code official and/or designee shall be referred to
hereafter as “the code official.”

[A] 104.2 Deputies. The code official may appoint such
number of technical officers and other employees as shall be
authorized from time to time. The code official shall be per-
mitted to deputize such employees as may be necessary to
carry out the functions of this code.

[A] 104.3 Reviews and approvals. The code official shall be
authorized to undertake reviews, make recommendations and
grant approvals as set forth in this code.

[A] 104.4 Comprehensive plan. The code official shall
assist the planning commission in the development and
implementation of the comprehensive plan.


SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION

[A] 104.5 Administrative reviews and permits. Adminis-
trative reviews and permits shall be in accordance with Sec-
tions 104.5.1 through 104.5.4.

[A] 104.5.1 Review of building permits. All applications
for building permits and amendments thereto shall be sub-
mitted to the code official for review and approved prior to
permit issuance. Each application shall include a set of
building plans and all data necessary to show that the
requirements of this code are met.

[A] 104.5.2 Site plan reviews. The code official shall
receive all applications for site plan review and review for
completeness and prepare submittals for review by the
appropriate body.

[A] 104.5.3 Conditional-use permits and variances. The
code official shall receive all applications for conditional
uses and variances or other plans as shall be permitted or
approved as required by this code, review for complete-
ness and prepare submittals for review by the appropriate
body.

[A] 104.5.4 Amendments. All requests for amendments
or changes to the comprehensive plan or this code or map
shall be submitted to the code official for processing.

[A] 104.6 Interpretations. The interpretation and application
of the provisions of this code shall be by the code official. An
appeal of an interpretation by the code official shall be sub-
mitted to the board of adjustment, who, unless otherwise pro-
vided, is authorized to interpret the code, and such
interpretation shall be considered final.

Uses are permitted within the various zones as described
in this code and as otherwise provided herein.

It is recognized that all possible uses and variations of uses
that might arise cannot reasonably be listed or categorized.
Mixed uses/sites or any use not specifically mentioned or
about which there is any question shall be administratively
classified by comparison with other uses identified in the
zones described in this code. If the proposed use resembles
identified uses in terms of intensity and character, and is con-
sistent with the purpose of this code and the individual zone’s
classification, it shall be considered as a permitted/nonper-
mitted use within a general zone classification, subject to the
regulations for the use it most nearly resembles. If a use does
not resemble other identified allowable uses within a zone, it
may be permitted as determined by the hearing body in public
hearing as an amendment to this code pursuant to Section
109.3.

[A] 104.7 Liability. The code official, or designee, charged
with the enforcement of this code, acting in good faith and
without malice in the discharge of the duties described in this
code, shall not be personally liable for any damage that may
accrue to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason
of an act or omission in the discharge of such duties. A suit
brought against the code official or employee because such
act or omission performed by the code official or employee in
the enforcement of any provision of such codes or other perti-
nent laws or ordinances implemented through the enforce-
ment of this code or enforced by the enforcement agency
shall be defended by the jurisdiction until final termination of

such proceedings, and any judgment resulting therefrom shall
be assumed by the jurisdiction.

This code shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen
the responsibility of any person owning, operating or control-
ling any building or parcel of land for any damages to persons
or property caused by defects, nor shall the enforcement
agency or its jurisdiction be held as assuming any such liabil-
ity by reason of the reviews or permits issued under this code.

[A] 104.8 Cooperation of other officials and officers. The
code official shall be authorized to request, and shall receive
so far as is required in the discharge of the duties described in
this code, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of
the jurisdiction.

SECTION 105
PLANNING COMMISSION

[A] 105.1 General. This section addresses the duties and
responsibilities of a planning commission, hereafter referred
to as “the commission,” and other officials and agencies, with
respect to the administration of this code.

[A] 105.2 Establishment of the commission. The establish-
ment of the commission shall be in accordance with the poli-
cies and procedures as set forth in state law. The commission
shall consist of the number of members as specified in state
law. Additionally, one member of the legislative body shall
be permitted to be appointed as liaison to the commission.
Such member shall have the right to attend all meetings and
take part in all discussions, but shall not vote on commission
decisions.

[A] 105.3 Terms for members. The terms of office for the
members of the commission shall be as set forth in state law.
Members shall be permitted to be removed for cause upon
written charges and after a public hearing before the legisla-
tive body of the jurisdiction, if such a hearing is requested.

[A] 105.4 Selection of members. All members shall be
appointed and approved by the legislative body of the juris-
diction served. The terms of office for the commission mem-
bers shall be staggered at intervals so as to provide continuity
in policy and personnel. Members of the commission shall be
residents of the jurisdiction served. Compensation of mem-
bers shall be set by the legislative body of the jurisdiction.
Any vacancy for the unexpired term of any member whose
term is not completed shall be filled. A member shall con-
tinue to serve until a successor has been appointed and
approved by the legislative body of the jurisdiction.

[A] 105.5 Chairperson election and rules adoption. The
commission shall elect from its membership a chairperson. It
shall also establish and adopt rules for its organization and
transaction of business and shall keep a public record of its
proceedings.

[A] 105.6 Commission secretary. A secretary to assist the
commission shall be appointed by the code official. The sec-
retary shall keep minutes of the commission meetings for
public record and conduct all correspondence, including the
notification of decisions. The secretary shall also certify
records. The secretary shall prepare and submit the minutes

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


of commission meetings to the chairperson and the commis-
sion.

[A] 105.7 Duties and powers. The duties and powers of the
planning commission shall be in accordance with Sections
105.7.1 through 105.7.5.

[A] 105.7.1 Comprehensive plan. It shall be the duty of
the commission, after holding public hearings, to create
and recommend to the legislative body a comprehensive
plan for the physical development of the jurisdiction,
which shall be permitted to include areas outside its
boundaries that bear consideration to the planning of the
jurisdiction. The comprehensive plan shall include at least
the following elements:

. Official maps.

. Growth and land use.

. Commercial/industrial uses.
. Transportation and utilities.
. Community facilities.

. Housing.

. Environmental.

DN DOF WN

. Geologic/natural hazards.

The commission shall be permitted also to recommend
amendments to the comprehensive plan regarding the
administration or maintenance of this code.

[A] 105.7.2 Zoning code. It shall be the duty of the com-
mission to develop and recommend to the legislative body
a zoning code, in accordance with the guidelines of the
comprehensive plan, establishing zones within the juris-
diction. Such a code shall be made in regards to the char-
acter of each district and the most appropriate use of land
within the jurisdiction.

The commission shall make periodic reports and rec-
ommendations to the legislative body.

[A] 105.7.3 Division of land regulations. It shall be the
duty of the commission to develop and certify regulations
governing the division of land. All divisions of land shall
be in accordance with the adopted regulations.

[A] 105.7.4 Conditional-use permits. It shall be the duty
of the commission to review conditional-use permit appli-
cations.

The application shall be accompanied by maps, draw-
ings or other documentation in support of the request. The
granting of a conditional-use permit shall not exempt the
applicant from compliance with other relevant provisions
of related ordinances.

[A] 105.7.5 Official zoning map. The legislative body
shall adopt an official zoning map for all areas included
within the jurisdiction.

[A] 105.8 Appeals and hearings. Any person with standing
aggrieved by any decision of the commission shall have the
right to make such appeals as shall be permitted to be pro-
vided by this code or state law. Such appeals shall be based
on the record.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION

SECTION 106
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE

[A] 106.1 General. Upon adoption of this code by the legis-
lative body, no use, building or structure, whether publicly or
privately owned, shall be constructed or authorized until the
location and extent thereof conform to said plan.

SECTION 107
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT

[A] 107.1 General. This section addresses the duties and
responsibilities of a board of adjustment, hereafter referred to
as “the board,” and other officials and agencies, with respect
to the administration of this code.

[A] 107.2 Establishment of the board. The establishment of
the board shall be in accordance with the procedures and pol-
icies set forth in state law. The board shall consist of the num-
ber of members as specified in state law. Additionally, one
member of the commission shall be appointed as liaison to
the board. Such member shall have the right to attend all
meetings and take part in all discussions, but shall not vote on
board decisions.

[A] 107.3 Terms for members. The terms of office for the
members of the board shall be as set forth in state law. Mem-
bers shall be permitted to be removed for cause upon written
charges and after a public hearing before the legislative body
of the jurisdiction, if such hearing is requested.

[A] 107.4 Selection of members. All members shall be
appointed and approved by the legislative body of the juris-
diction served. The terms of office shall be staggered at inter-
vals, so as to provide continuity in policy and personnel.
Members of the board shall be residents of the jurisdiction
served. Compensation shall be set by the legislative body of
the jurisdiction. Any vacancy for the unexpired term of any
member whose term is not completed shall be filled. A mem-
ber shall continue to serve until a successor has been
appointed and approved by the legislative body of the juris-
diction.

[A] 107.5 Chairperson election and rules adoption. The
board shall elect from its membership a chairperson. It shall
also establish and adopt rules for its organization and the
transaction of business and shall keep a public record of its
proceedings.

[A] 107.6 Board secretary. A secretary to assist the board
shall be appointed by the code official. The secretary shall
keep minutes of the board meetings for public record and
conduct all correspondence, including the notification of
decisions. The secretary shall also certify records. The secre-
tary shall prepare and submit the minutes of board meetings
to the chairperson and the board.

[A] 107.7 Duties and powers. The duties and powers of the
board of adjustment shall be in accordance with Sections
107.7.1 through 107.7.3.

[A] 107.7.1 Errors. The board shall have the power to
hear and decide on appeals where it is alleged that there is
an error in any order, requirement, decision, determination
or interpretation by the code official.


SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION

[A] 107.7.2 Variances. The board shall have the power to
hear and decide on appeals wherein a variance to the terms
of this code is proposed. Limitations as to the board’s
authorization shall be as set forth in this code.

[A] 107.7.3 Variance review criteria. The board of
adjustment shall be permitted to approve, approve with
conditions or deny a request for a variance. Each request
for a variance shall be consistent with the following crite-
ria:
1. Limitations on the use of the property due to physi-
cal, topographical and geologic features.

2. The grant of the variance will not grant any special
privilege to the property owner.

3. The applicant can demonstrate that without a vari-
ance there can be no reasonable use of the property.

4. The grant of the variance is not based solely on eco-
nomic reasons.

5. The necessity for the variance was not created by the
property owner.

6. The variance requested is the minimum variance
necessary to allow reasonable use of the property.

7. The grant of the variance will not be injurious to the
public health, safety or welfare.

8. The property subject to the variance request pos-
sesses one or more unique characteristics generally
not applicable to similarly situated properties.

[A] 107.8 Use variance. The board of adjustment shall not
grant a variance to allow the establishment of a use in a zon-
ing district when such use is prohibited by the provisions of
this code.

[A] 107.9 Decisions. The board shall be permitted to decide
in any manner it sees fit; however, it shall not have the
authority to alter or change this code or zoning map or allow
as a use that which would be inconsistent with the require-
ments of this code, provided, however, that in interpreting
and applying the provisions of this code, the requirements
shall be deemed to be the spirit and intent of the code and do
not constitute the granting of a special privilege.

SECTION 108
HEARING EXAMINER

[A] 108.1 General. This section addresses the duties and
responsibilities of a hearing examiner, hereafter referred to as
the “examiner,” and other officials and agencies with respect
to the administration of this code.

[A] 108.2 Appointment of an examiner. The examiner shall
be appointed and approved by the legislative body of the
jurisdiction served. Compensation shall be set by same.

[A] 108.3 Duties and powers. The examiner shall hear and
consider all applications for discretionary land rezones and
use decisions as authorized by the legislative body by resolu-
tion. Such considerations shall be set for public hearing. The

examiner shall be bound by the same standards of conduct as
the commission and board, with respect to the administration
of this code.

[A] 108.4 Decisions. The examiner shall, within 10 working
days, render a decision. Notice in writing of the decision and
the minutes of record shall be given to the code official for
distribution as required. All decisions shall be kept in accor-
dance with state regulations and such decisions shall be open
to the public.

SECTION 109
HEARINGS, APPEALS AND AMENDMENTS

[A] 109.1 Hearings. Upon receipt of an application in proper
form, the code official shall arrange to advertise the time and
place of public hearing. Such advertisement shall be given by
at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the jurisdiction. Such notice shall state the nature of
the request, the location of the property, and the time and
place of hearing. Reasonable effort shall also be made to give
notice by regular mail of the time and place of hearing to each
surrounding property owner; the extent of the area to be noti-
fied shall be set by the code official. A notice of such hearing
shall be posted in a conspicuous manner on the subject prop-
erty.

[A] 109.2 Appeals. Appeals shall be in accordance with Sec-
tions 109.2.1 through 109.2.3.

[A] 109.2.1 Filing. Any person with standing, aggrieved
or affected by any decision of the code official shall be
permitted to appeal to the examiner, board or commission
by written request with the code official. Upon furnishing
the proper information, the code official shall transmit to
the examiner, board or commission all papers and perti-
nent data related to the appeal.

[A] 109.2.2 Time limit. An appeal shall only be consid-
ered if filed within [NUMBER OF WORKING DAYS] days after
the cause arises or the appeal shall not be considered. If
such an appeal is not made, the decision of the code offi-
cial shall be considered final.

[A] 109.2.3 Stays of proceedings. An appeal stays all pro-
ceedings from further action unless there is immediate
danger to public health and safety.

[A] 109.3 Amendments. This code shall be permitted to be
amended, but all proposed amendments shall be submitted to
the code official for review and recommendation to the com-
mission.

[A] 109.4 Voting and notice of decision. There shall be a
vote of a majority of the board and commission present in
order to decide any matter under consideration. Each decision
shall be entered in the minutes by the secretary. All appeals
shall be kept in accordance with state regulations and such
appeals shall be open to the public.

Notice in writing of the decision and the disposition of
each appeal shall be given to the code official and each appel-
lant by mail or otherwise.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


SECTION 110
VIOLATIONS

[A] 110.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person
to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain
any building or land or cause or permit the same to be done in
violation of this code. When any building or parcel of land
regulated by this code is being used contrary to this code, the
code official shall be permitted to order such use discontin-
ued and the structure, parcel of land, or portion thereof,
vacated by notice served on any person causing such use to
be continued. Such person shall discontinue the use within
the time prescribed by the code official after receipt of such
notice to make the structure, parcel of land, or portion
thereof, comply with the requirements of this code.

SECTION 111
PERMITS AND APPROVALS

[A] 111.1 General. All departments, officials and employees
which are charged with the duty or authority to issue permits
or approvals shall issue no permit or approval for uses or pur-
poses where the same would be in conflict with this code.
Any permit or approval, if issued in conflict with this code,
shall be null and void.

[A] 111.2 Expiration or cancellation. Each license, permit
or approval issued shall expire after 180 days if no work is
undertaken or such use or activity is not established, unless a
different time of issuance of the license or permit is allowed
in this code, or unless an extension is granted by the issuing
agency prior to expiration.

Failure to comply fully with the terms of any permit,
license or approval shall be permitted to be grounds for can-
cellation or revocation. Action to cancel any license, permit
or approval shall be permitted to be taken on proper grounds
by the code official. Cancellation of a permit or approval by
the commission or board shall be permitted to be appealed in
the same manner as its original action.

[A] 111.3 Validity of licenses, permits and approvals. For
the issuance of any license, permit or approval for which the
commission or board is responsible, the code official shall
require that the development or use in question proceed only
in accordance with the terms of such license, permit or
approval, including any requirements or conditions estab-
lished as a condition of issuance. Except as specifically pro-
vided for in this code and conditions of approval, the securing
of one required review or approval shall not exempt the recip-
ient from the necessity of securing any other required review
or approval.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION


2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS

SECTION 201
GENERAL

201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the follow-
ing words and terms shall, for the purposes of this code, have
the meanings shown in this chapter.

201.2 Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense
include the future; words stated in the masculine gender
include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes
the plural and the plural, the singular.

201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not
defined in this code and are defined in the Jnternational
Building Code or the International Mechanical Code, such
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those
codes.

201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined
through the methods authorized by this section, such terms
shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context
implies.

SECTION 202
GENERAL DEFINITIONS

ABANDONED SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

ACCESSORY BUILDING. An incidental subordinate
building customarily incidental to and located on the same lot
occupied by the main use or building, such as a detached
garage.

ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS. An accessory build-
ing used solely as the temporary dwelling of guests of the
occupants of the premises; such dwelling having no Ajtchen
facilities and not rented or otherwise used as a separate s/eep-
dag unit.

ACCESSORY USE. A use conducted on the same lot as the
primary use of the structure to which it is related; a use that is
clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection
with, such primary use.

AGRICULTURE. The tilling of the soil, raising of crops,
farm animals, livestock, horticulture, gardening, beekeeping
and aquaculture.

ALLEY. Any public way or thoroughfare more than 10 feet
(3048 mm), but less than 16 feet (4877 mm), in width, which
has been dedicated to the public for public use.

[A] ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification
in construction, occupancy or use.

AMUSEMENT CENTER. An establishment offering five
or more amusement devices, including, but not limited to,
coin-operated electronic games, shooting galleries, table
games and similar recreational diversions within an enclosed
building.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

ANIMATED SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
Electrically activated. See Section 1002.1.
Environmentally activated. See Section 1002.1.
Mechanically activated. See Section 1002.1.

APARTMENT HOUSE. A residential building designed or
used for three or more dwelling units.

ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. See Section 1002.1.

AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MAJOR. An establishment pri-
marily engaged in the repair or maintenance of motor vehi-
cles, trailers and similar large mechanical equipment,
including paint, body and fender, and major engine and
engine part overhaul, which is conducted within a completely
enclosed building.

AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MINOR. An establishment pri-
marily engaged in the repair or maintenance of motor vehi-
cles, trailers and similar mechanical equipment, including
brake, muffler, upholstery work, tire repair and change, lubri-
cation, tune ups, and transmission work, which is conducted
within a completely enclosed building.

AUTOMOTIVE SELF-SERVICE MOTOR FUEL DIS-
PENSING FACILITY. That portion of property where
flammable or combustible liquids or gases used as fuel are
stored and dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks
of motor vehicles by persons other than a service station
attendant. Such an establishment shall be permitted to offer
for sale at retail other convenience items as a clearly second-
ary activity and shall be permitted also to include a free-
standing automatic car wash.

AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE MOTOR FUEL DISPENS-
ING FACILITY. That portion of property where flammable
or combustible liquids or gases used as fuel are stored and
dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor
vehicles. Accessory activities shall be permitted to include
automotive repair and maintenance, car wash service, and
food sales.

AWNING. See Section 1002.1.

AWNING SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
BACKLIT AWNING. See Section 1002.1.
BANNER. See Section 1002.1.

BANNER SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

BASEMENT. Any floor level below the first story in a build-
ing, except that a floor level in a building having only one
floor level shall be classified as a basement unless such floor
level qualifies as a first story as defined herein.

BILLBOARD. See Section 1002.1.

BOARD. The board of adjustment of the adopting jurisdic-
tion.


DEFINITIONS

[B] BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling containing a single
dwelling unit and not more than 10 sleeping units, where
lodging is provided with or without meals, for compensation
for more than one week.

[A] BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for support-
ing or sheltering any use or occupancy.

BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which the principal use of
the site is conducted.

BUILDING, TEMPORARY. A building used temporarily
for the storage of construction materials and equipment inci-
dental and necessary to on-site permitted construction of util-
ities, or other community facilities, or used temporarily in
conjunction with the sale of property within a subdivision
under construction.

BUILDING CODE. The Jnternational Building Code pro-
mulgated by the International Code Council, as adopted by
the jurisdiction.

BUILDING ELEVATION. See Section 1002.1.

BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance above the aver-
age existing grade measured to the highest point of the build-
ing. The height of a stepped or terraced building shall be the
maximum height of any segment of the building.

BUILDING LINE. The perimeter of that portion of a build-
ing or structure nearest a property line, but excluding open
steps, terraces, cornices and other ornamental features pro-
jecting from the walls of the building or structure.
BUSINESS OR FINANCIAL SERVICES. An establish-
ment intended for the conduct or service or administration by
a commercial enterprise, or offices for the conduct of profes-
sional or business service.

CANOPY. A roofed structure constructed of fabric or other
material supported by the building or by support extending to
the ground directly under the canopy placed so as to extend
outward from the building providing a protective shield for
doors, windows and other openings.

CANOPY (Attached). See Section 1002.1.
CANOPY (Free-standing). See Section 1002.1.
CANOPY SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
CHANGEABLE SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

Electrically activated. See Section 1002.1.

Manually activated. See Section 1002.1.
COMBINATION SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
COMMERCIAL, HEAVY. An establishment or business
that generally uses open sales yards, outside equipment stor-
age or outside activities that generate noise or other impacts
considered incompatible with less-intense uses. Typical busi-
nesses in this definition are lumber yards, construction spe-

cialty services, heavy equipment suppliers or building
contractors.

COMMERCIAL, LIGHT. An establishment or business
that generally has retail or wholesale sales, office uses, or ser-
vices, which do not generate noise or other impacts consid-
ered incompatible with less-intense uses. Typical businesses

in this definition are retail stores, offices, catering services or
restaurants.

COMMERCIAL CENTER, COMMUNITY. A _ com-
pletely planned and designed commercial development pro-
viding for the sale of general merchandise and/or
convenience goods and services. A conununity commercial
center shall provide for the sale of general merchandise, and
may include a variety store, discount store or supermarket.

COMMERCIAL CENTER, CONVENIENCE. A com-
pletely planned and designed commercial development pro-
viding for the sale of general merchandise and/or
convenience goods and services. A convenience commercial
center shall provide a small cluster of convenience shops or
services.

COMMERCIAL CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD. A com-
pletely planned and designed commercial development pro-
viding for the sale of general merchandise and/or
convenience goods and services. A neighborhood commer-
cial center shall provide for the sales of convenience goods
and services, with a supermarket as the principal tenant.

COMMERCIAL CENTER, REGIONAL. A completely
planned and designed commercial development providing for
the sale of general merchandise and/or convenience goods
and services. A regional center shall provide for the sale of
general merchandise, apparel, furniture, home furnishings,
and other retail sales and services, in full depth and variety.

COMMERCIAL RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES.
Establishments that engage in the sale of general retail goods
and accessory services. Businesses within this definition
include those that conduct sales and storage entirely within an
enclosed structure (with the exception of occasional outdoor
“sidewalk” promotions) ; businesses specializing in the sale of
either general merchandise or convenience goods.

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The declaration of purposes,
policies and programs for the development of the jurisdiction.

CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would become harmoni-
ous or compatible with neighboring uses through the applica-
tion and maintenance of qualifying conditions.

CONDOMINIUM. A single-dwelling unit in a multiunit
dwelling or structure, that is separately owned and may be
combined with an undivided interest in the common areas
and facilities of the property.

CONGREGATE RESIDENCE. Any building or portion
thereof that contains facilities for living, sleeping and sanita-
tion as required by this code, and may include facilities for
eating and cooking for occupancy by other than a family. A
congregate residence shall be permitted to be a shelter, con-
vent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, but
does not include jails, hospitals, nursing homes, hotels or
lodging houses.

COPY. See Section 1002.1.
COURT. A space, open and unobstructed to the sky, located

at or above grade level on a lot and bounded on three or more
sides by walls of a building.

DAY CARE, FAMILY. The keeping for part-time care and/
or instruction, whether or not for compensation, of six or less

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


children at any one time within a dwelling, not including
members of the family residing on the premises.

DAY CARE, GROUP. An establishment for the care and/or
instruction, whether or not for compensation, of seven or
more persons at any one time. Child nurseries, preschools and
adult care facilities are included in this definition.

DENSITY. The number of dwelling units that are allowed on
an area of land, which area of land shall be permitted to
include dedicated streets contained within the development.

DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

DRIVEWAY. A private access road, the use of that is lim-
ited to persons residing, employed, or otherwise using or vis-
iting the parcel in which it is located.

DWELLING, MULTIPLE UNIT. A building or portion
thereof designed for occupancy by three or more families liv-
ing independently in which they may or may not share com-
mon entrances and/or other spaces. Individual dwelling units
may be owned as condominiums, or offered for rent.

DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit
with kitchen and sleeping facilities, designed for occupancy
by one family.

DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A building designed or
arranged to be occupied by two families living independently,
with the structure having only two dwelling units.

[B] DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete,
independent living facilities for one or more persons, includ-
ing permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking
and sanitation.

EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for
present or future use by a person or agency other than the
legal fee owner(s) of the property. The easement shall be per-
mitted to be for use under, on or above said lot or lots.

ELECTRIC SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER. See Sec-
tion 1002.1.

EXTERIOR SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

FACE OF BUILDING, PRIMARY. The wall of a building
fronting on a street or right-of-way, excluding any appurte-
nances such as projecting fins, columns, pilasters, canopies,
marquees, showcases or decorations.

FARM ANIMALS. Animals other than household pets that
shall be permitted to, where permitted, be kept and main-
tained for commercial production and sale and/or family food
production, education or recreation. Farm animals are identi-
fied by these categories: large animals, e.g., horses and cattle;
medium animals, e.g., sheep and goats; or small animals, e.g.,
rabbits, chinchillas, chickens, turkeys, pheasants, geese,
ducks and pigeons.

FASCIA SIGN. See “Wall or fascia sign,” Section 1002.1.

FLASHING SIGN. See “Animated sign, electrically acti-
vated,” Section 1002.1.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

DEFINITIONS

FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the horizontal areas of
floors of a building measured from the exterior face of exte-
rior walls or, if appropriate, from the center line of dividing
walls; this includes courts and decks or porches when cov-
ered by a roof.

FLOOR AREA, NET. The gross floor area exclusive of
vents, shafts, courts, elevators, stairways, exterior walls and
similar facilities.

FREE-STANDING SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

FRONTAGE. The width of a lot or parcel abutting a public
right-of-way measured at the front property line.

FRONTAGE (Building). See Section 1002.1.
FRONTAGE (Property). See Section 1002.1.

GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building or a portion of a building
not more than 1,000 square feet (92.9 m’) in area, in which
only private or pleasure-type motor vehicles used by the ten-
ants of the building or buildings on the premises are stored or
kept.

GRADE (Adjacent Ground Elevation). The lowest point of
elevation of the existing surface of the ground, within the area
between the building and a line 5 feet (1524 mm) from the
building.

GROUND SIGN. See “Free-standing sign,” Section 1002.1.

GROUP CARE FACILITY. A facility, required to be
licensed by the state, which provides training, care, supervi-
sion, treatment and/or rehabilitation to the aged, disabled,
those convicted of crimes, or those suffering the effects of
drugs or alcohol; this does not include day care centers, fan-
ily day care homes, foster homes, schools, hospitals, jails or
prisons.

[B] HABITABLE SPACE (Room). Space in a structure for
living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet com-
partments, closets, halls, storage or utility space, and similar
areas are not considered habitable space.

HOME OCCUPATION. The partial use of a home for com-
mercial or nonresidential uses by a resident thereof, which is
subordinate and incidental to the use of the dwelling for resi-
dential purposes.

HOSPITAL. An institution designed for the diagnosis, treat-
ment and care of human illness or infirmity and providing
health services, primarily for inpatients, and including as
related facilities, laboratories, outpatient departments, train-
ing facilities and staff offices.

HOUSEHOLD PETS. Dogs, cats, rabbits, birds, etc., for
family use only (noncommercial) with cages, pens, etc.

ILLUMINATED SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

INDUSTRIAL OR RESEARCH PARK. A tract of land
developed according to a master site plan for the use of a
family of industries and their related commercial uses, and
that is of sufficient size and physical improvement to protect
surrounding areas and the general community and to ensure a
harmonious integration into the neighborhood.

INTERIOR SIGN. See Section 1002.1.


DEFINITIONS

[A] JURISDICTION. As used in this code, jurisdiction is
any political subdivision that adopts this code for administra-
tive regulations within its sphere of authority.

KITCHEN. Any room or portion of a room within a building
designed and intended to be used for the cooking or prepara-
tion of food.

LANDSCAPING. The finishing and adornment of unpaved
yard areas. Materials and treatment generally include natu-
rally growing elements such as grass, trees, shrubs and flow-
ers. This treatment shall be permitted also to include the use
of logs, rocks, fountains, water features and contouring of the
earth.

LEGISLATIVE BODY. The political entity of the adopting
jurisdiction.

LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to, horses, bovine
animals, sheep, goats, swine, reindeer, donkeys, mules and
any other hoofed animals.

[A] LOT. A single parcel of land.
MANSARD. See Section 1002.1.

MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. All other types of manu-
facturing not included in the definitions of light manufactur-
ing and medium manufacturing.

MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The manufacturing, com-
pounding, processing, assembling, packaging or testing of
goods or equipment, including research activities, conducted
entirely within an enclosed structure, with no outside storage,
serviced by a modest volume of trucks or vans and imposing
a negligible impact on the surrounding environment by noise,
vibration, smoke, dust or pollutants.

MANUFACTURING, MEDIUM. The manufacturing,
compounding, processing, assembling, packaging or testing
of goods or equipment within an enclosed structure or an
open yard that is capable of being screened from neighboring
properties, serviced by a modest volume of trucks or other
vehicles.

MARQUEE. See “ Canopy (Attached),” Section 1002.1.
MARQUEE SIGN. See “Canopy sign,” Section 1002.1.
MENU BOARD. See Section 1002.1.

MORTUARY, FUNERAL HOME. An establishment in
which the dead are prepared for burial or cremation. The
facility shall be permitted to include a chapel for the conduct
of funeral services and spaces for funeral services and infor-
mal gatherings, and/or display of funeral equipment.

MOTEL, HOTEL. Any building containing six or more
sleeping units intended or designed to be used, or which are
used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or which are occu-
pied for sleeping purposes by guests.

MULTIPLE-FACED SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot whose width, area or

other dimension did not conform to the regulations when this
code became effective.

NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign or sign structure or
portion thereof lawfully existing at the time this code became
effective, which does not now conform.

10

NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building or struc-
ture or portion thereof lawfully existing at the time this code
became effective, which was designed, erected or structurally
altered for a use that does not conform to the zoning regula-
tions of the zone in which it is located.

NONCONFORMING USE. See “Use, nonconforming.”

OFF-PREMISE SIGN. See “Outdoor advertising sign,”
Section 1002.1.

ON-PREMISE SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

OPEN SPACE. Land areas that are not occupied by build-
ings, structures, parking areas, streets, alleys or required
yards. Open space shall be permitted to be devoted to land-
scaping, preservation of natural features, patios, and recre-
ational areas and facilities.

OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
PARAPET. See Section 1002.1.

PARK. A public or private area of land, with or without
buildings, intended for outdoor active or passive recreational
uses.

PARKING LOT. An open area, other than a street, used for
the parking of automobiles.

PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. A space within a
building or private or public parking lot, exclusive of drive-
ways, ramps, columns, office and work areas, for the parking
of an automobile.

[A] PERSON. A natural person, heirs, executors, administra-
tors or assigns, and includes a firm, partnership or corpora-
tion, its or their successors or assigns, or the agent of any of
the aforesaid.

PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A residential
or commercial development guided by a total design plan in
which one or more of the zoning or subdivision regulations,
other than use regulations, shall be permitted to be waived or
varied to allow flexibility and creativity in site and building
design and location, in accordance with general guidelines.

PLOT PLAN. A plot of a lot, drawn to scale, showing the
actual measurements, the size and location of any existing
buildings or buildings to be erected, the location of the lot in
relation to abutting streets, and other such information.

POLE SIGN. See “Free-standing sign,” Section 1002.1.
POLITICAL SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
POOLS (SWIMMING), HOT TUBS AND SPAS.

Above-ground/on-ground pool. See “Private swimming
pool.”

Barrier. A fence, a wall, a building wall, the wall of an
above-ground swimming pool or a combination thereof,
which completely surrounds the swimming pool and
obstructs access to the swimming pool.

Hot tub. See “Private swimming pool.”
In-ground pool. See “Private swimming pool.”

Power safety cover. A pool cover that is placed over the
water area, and is opened and closed with a motorized
mechanism activated by a control switch.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


Private swimming pool. Any structure that contains
water over 24 inches (610 mm) in depth and which is used,
or intended to be used, for swimming or recreational bath-
ing in connection with an occupancy in Use Group R-3
and which is available only to the family and guests of the
householder. This includes in-ground, above-ground, and
on-ground swimming pools, hot tubs and spas.

Private swimming pool, indoor. Any private swimming
poo! that is totally contained within a private structure and
surrounded on all four sides by walls of said structure.

Private swimming pool, outdoor. Any private swimming
pool that is not an indoor pool.

Public swimming pool. Any swimming pool other than a
private swimming pool.

Spa. See “Private swimming pool.”
PORTABLE SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
PROJECTING SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, storm
sewer or drainage facility, sanitary sewer, water main, road-
way, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-
street parking area, lot improvement, or other facility for
which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or for which the
local government responsibility is established.

PUBLIC SERVICES. Uses operated by a unit of govern-
ment to serve public needs, such as police (with or without
jail), fire service, ambulance, judicial court or government
offices, but not including public utility stations or mainte-
nance facilities.

PUBLIC UTILITY STATION. A structure or facility used
by a public or quasi-public utility agency to store, distribute,
generate electricity, gas, telecommunications, and related
equipment, or to pump or chemically treat water. This does
not include storage or treatment of sewage, solid waste or
hazardous waste.

[A] PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of
land essentially unobstructed from the ground to the sky,
which is deeded, dedicated or otherwise permanently appro-
priated to the public for public use.

QUASI-PUBLIC. Essentially a public use, although under
private ownership or control.

QUORUM. A majority of the authorized members of a board
or commission.

REAL ESTATE SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

RECREATION, INDOOR. An establishment providing
completely enclosed recreation activities. Accessory uses
shall be permitted to include the preparation and serving of
food and/or the sale of equipment related to the enclosed
uses. Included in this definition shall be bowling, roller skat-
ing or ice skating, billiards, pool, motion picture theatres, and
related amusements.

RECREATION, OUTDOOR. An area free of buildings
except for restrooms, dressing rooms, equipment storage,
maintenance buildings, open-air pavilions and similar struc-
tures used primarily for recreational activities.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

DEFINITIONS

RECYCLING FACILITY. Any location whose primary use
is where waste or scrap materials are stored, bought, sold,
accumulated, exchanged, packaged, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap metals, paper, rags, tires
and bottles, and other such materials.

[A] REGISTERED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL. An archi-
tect or engineer registered or licensed to practice professional
architecture or engineering as defined by statutory require-
ments of the professional registration laws of the state in
which the project is to be constructed.

REHABILITATION CENTER (Halfway House). An
establishment whose primary purpose is the rehabilitation of
persons. Such services include drug and alcohol rehabilita-
tion, assistance to emotionally and mentally disturbed per-
sons, and halfway houses for prison parolees and juveniles.

RELIGIOUS, CULTURAL AND FRATERNAL ACTIV-
ITY. A use or building owned or maintained by organized
religious organizations or nonprofit associations for social,
civic or philanthropic purposes, or the purpose for which per-
sons regularly assemble for worship.

RENOVATION. Interior or exterior remodeling of a struc-
ture, other than ordinary repair.

RESTAURANT. An establishment that sells prepared food
for consumption. Restaurants shall be classified as follows:

Restaurant, fast food. An establishment that sells food
already prepared for consumption, packaged in paper, sty-
rofoam or similar materials, and may include drive-in or
drive-up facilities for ordering.

Restaurant, general. An establishment that sells food for
consumption on or off the premises.

Restaurant, take-out. An establishment that sells food
only for consumption off the premises.

REVOLVING SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
ROOF LINE. See Section 1002.1.
ROOF SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL. A school establishment to
provide for the teaching of industrial, clerical, managerial or
artistic skills. This definition applies to schools that are
owned and operated privately for profit and that do not offer a
complete educational curriculum (¢.g., beauty school or mod-
eling school).

SETBACK. The minimum required distance between the
property line and the building Line.

SIGN. An advertising message, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display, illustration, insignia, surface or space
erected or maintained in view of the observer thereof for
identification, advertisement or promotion of the interests of
any person, entity, product or service, including the sign
structure, supports, lighting system and any attachments,
ornaments or other features used to draw the attention of
observers.

SIGN (Chapter 10). See Section 1002.1.
SIGN AREA. See Section 1002.1.
SIGN COPY. See Section 1002.1.

11


DEFINITIONS

SIGN FACE. See Section 1002.1.
SIGN STRUCTURE. See Section 1002.1.

SIGNS, COMMUNITY. Temporary, on- or off-premises
signs, generally made of a woven material or durable syn-
thetic materials primarily attached to or hung from light poles
or on buildings. These signs are solely of a decorative, festive
and/or informative nature announcing activities, promotions
or events with seasonal or traditional themes having broad
community interest, and which are sponsored or supported by
a jurisdiction-based nonprofit organization.

SITE PLAN. A plan that outlines the use and development of
any tract of land.

[B] SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people
sleep, which can also include permanent provisions for liv-
ing, eating and either sanitation or kitchen facilities, but not
both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a dwelling
unitare not sleeping units.

[B] STORY. That portion of a building included between the
upper surface of any floor and the upper surface of the floor
next above, except that the topmost story shall be that portion
of a building included between the upper surface of the top-
most floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor
level directly above a usable or unused under-floor space is
more than 6 feet (1829 mm) above grade as defined herein
for more than 50 percent of the total perimeter or is more than
12 feet (3658 mm) above grade as defined herein at any
point, such usable or unused under-floor space shall be con-
sidered as a story.

STREET. Any thoroughfare or public way not less than 16
feet (4877 mm) in width which has been dedicated.

STREET, PRIVATE. A right-of-way or easement in private
ownership, not dedicated or maintained as a public street,

which affords the principal means of access to two or more
sites.

[A] STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an
edifice or building of any kind, or any piece of work artifi-
cially built up or composed of parts joined together in some
definite manner.

SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract, lot or parcel of land
into two or more lots, plats, sites or other divisions of land.

TEMPORARY SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

THEATER. A building used primarily for the presentation
of live stage productions, performances or motion pictures.

UNDER CANOPY SIGN OR UNDER MARQUEE SIGN.
See Section 1002.1.

USE. The activity occurring on a lot or parcel for which land
or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for which
land or a building is or may be occupied, including all acces-
sory uses.

USE, CHANGE OF. The change within the classified use of
a structure or premise.

USE, NONCONFORMING. A use that lawfully occupied a
building or land at the time this code became effective, which
has been lawfully continued and which does not now con-
form to the use regulations.

12

USE, PRINCIPAL. A use that fulfills a primary function of
a household, establishment, institution or other entity.

USE, TEMPORARY. A use that is authorized by this code
to be conducted for a fixed period of time. Temporary uses
are characterized by such activities as the sale of agricultural
products, contractors’ offices and equipment sheds, fire-
works, carnivals, flea markets, and garage sales.

V SIGN. See Section 1002.1.
VARIANCE. A deviation from the height, bulk, setback,

parking or other dimensional requirements established by this
code.

WALL OR FASCIA SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

WAREHOUSE, WHOLESALE OR STORAGE. A build-
ing or premises in which goods, merchandise or equipment
are stored for eventual distribution.

WINDOW SIGN. See Section 1002.1.

YARD. An open, unoccupied space on a lot, other than a
court, which is unobstructed from the ground upward by
buildings or structures, except as otherwise provided in this
code.

YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of
the lot, the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance
between the front lot line and a line parallel thereto.

YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the
lot, the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance
between the rear lot line or ordinary high water line and a line
parallel thereto.

YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot
with the building and between the building line and the side
lot line, or to the ordinary high water line.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 3
USE DISTRICTS

SECTION 301
DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS

301.1 Classification. In order to classify, regulate and restrict
the locations of uses and locations of buildings designated for
specific areas; and to regulate and determine the areas of
yards, courts and other open spaces within or surrounding
such buildings, property is hereby classified into districts as
prescribed in this chapter.

SECTION 302
MINIMUM AREAS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS

302.1 Minimum areas. The minimum areas that may consti-
tute a separate or detached part of any of the following zoning
districts on the zoning map or subsequent amendments to said
zoning map shall be as shown in Table 302.1. When a nonres-
idential district is directly across the street from or abuts the
district with the same or less restrictive classification, the area
of the land directly across the street or abutting the property
may be included in the calculations in meeting the minimum
district size requirements.

TABLE 302.1
MINIMUM AREAS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS

 

 

 

ZONING MINIMUM AREA?
DISTRICT OF THE DISTRICT
A, Division 1 No minimum
A, Division 2 [JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]

 

A, Division 3
C, Division 1
C, Division 2
C, Division 3
C, Division 4
CR, Division 1
CR, Division 2
FI, Division 1
FI, Division 2
FI, Division 3
R, Division 1

[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
[JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
R, Division 2 [JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]
R, Division 3 [JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]

For SI: 1 acre = 4047 m*.

a. The adopting jurisdiction should fill in with appropriate land areas
expressed in acres.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION 303
ZONING MAP

303.1 General. The boundaries of each zoning district are to
be indicated upon the official zoning map as approved by the

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

legislative authority. Said map and subsequent amendments
thereto shall be considered as a part of this code.

SECTION 304
ANNEXED TERRITORY

304.1 Classification. Any territory hereafter annexed shall
automatically, upon such annexation, be classified as R, Divi-
sion la, residential district, and be subject to all conditions
and regulations applicable to property in such district.

SECTION 305
CONDITIONAL USES

305.1 General. The principal objective of this zoning code is
to provide for an orderly arrangement of compatible build-
ings and land uses, and for the property location of all types
of uses required for the social and economic welfare of the
community. To accomplish this objective, each type and kind
of use is classified as permitted in one or more of the various
use districts established by this code. However, in addition to
those uses specifically classified and permitted in each dis-
trict, there are certain additional uses which it may be neces-
sary to allow because of the unusual characteristics of the
service they provide the public. These conditional uses
require particular considerations as to their proper location to
adjacent, established or intended uses, or to the planned
growth of the community. The conditions controlling the
locations and operation of such special uses are established
by the applicable sections of this code.

13


14

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


uses shall be:

SECTION 401
AGRICULTURAL ZONES DEFINED

401.1 Agricultural zone. Allowable agricultural (A) zone

CHAPTER 4
AGRICULTURAL ZONES

Division 1. Any designated open space as set forth in this

code.

Division 2. Any agricultural use, including, but not limited
to, dwellings, maintenance/storage buildings and other

such uses necessary for the principal use.

Division 3. Any public park land or other similar recre-
ational use, including, but not limited to, amusement rides,
office buildings, retail buildings and dwellings necessary

for the maintenance of the principal use.

SECTION 402

BULK REGULATIONS

402.1 General. The minimum area, setbacks, density and

maximum height shall be as prescribed in Table 402.1.

TABLE 402.1

AGRICULTURAL (A) ZONE BULK REGULATIONS (in feet, unless noted otherwise)®

 

LOT DIMENSIONS

SETBACK REQUIREMENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unit/5 acres

 

 

 

 

 

 

MINIMUM MAXIMUM MAXIMUM
ZONE LOT AREA DENSITY Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum BUILDING
DIVISION (acres) (units/acre) lot width lot depth front yard side yard rear yard HEIGHT?
1 20 1 dwelling 600 600 30 15 60 35
unit/20 acres
2 10 1 dwelling 400 400 30 15 60 35
unit/10 acres
3 5 1 dwelling 250 250 30 15 60 35

 

 

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 acre = 4047 m’.
a. Open spaces and parks can be of a reduced size, if approved.
b. Access storage structures, windmills and similar structures shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height when approved by the code official.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

15


16

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL ZONES

SECTION 501
RESIDENTIAL ZONES DEFINED

501.1 Residential zone. Allowable residential (R) zone uses
shall be:

Division 1. The following uses are permitted in an R,
Division 1 zone:

Single-family dwellings, public owned and operated
parks, recreation centers, swimming pools and _play-
grounds, police and fire department stations, public and
governmental services, public libraries, schools and col-
leges (excluding colleges or trade schools operated for
profit), public parking lots, private garages, buildings
accessory to the above permitted uses (including private
garages and accessory living quarters), and temporary
buildings.

Division 2. The following uses are permitted in an R,
Division 2 zone:

Any use permitted in R, Division 1 zones and two-fam-
ily dwellings.

Division 3. The following uses are permitted in an R,
Division 3 zone:

All uses permitted in R, Division 2 zones, multiple-unit
dwellings, such as apartment houses, boarding houses,
condominiums and congregate residences.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION 502
BULK REGULATIONS
502.1 General. The minimum area, setbacks, density and
maximum height shall be as prescribed in Table 502.1.
TABLE 502.1
RESIDENTIAL (R) ZONE BULK REGULATIONS {in feet, unless noted otherwise)
MINIMUM MAXIMUM LOT DIMENSIONS SETBACK REQUIREMENTS MAXIMUM
LOT AREA/ DENSITY _ _. . a So
DIVISION SITE (square | (dwelling unit/ Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum BUILDING
feet) acre) lot width lot depth front yard side yard rear yard HEIGHT?
L a 35,000 1 125 150 25 10 30 35
b 20,000 2 100 125 20 10 25 35
c 10,000 4 15 100 20 5 25 35
d 6,000 6 60 90 15 5 20 35
2 a 10,000 4 60 70 20 5 20 35
b 6,000 6 60 70 15 5 20 35
3 a 6,000 8 60 70 15 5 20 35
b 6,000 12 60 70 15 5 20 35

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m’, 1 acre = 4047 m*.

a. Accessory towers, satellite dishes and similar structures shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height when approved by the code official.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

WV

 


18

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 6

COMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL ZONES

SECTION 601

COMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL

601.1

ZONES DEFINED
Commercial and commercial/residential zones.

Allowable commercial (C) zone and commercial/residential
(CR) zone uses shall be:

C Zone

Division 1. The following uses are permitted in a C,
Division 1 zone:

Minor automotive repair, automotive motor fuel dis-
pensing facilities, automotive self-service motor fuel
dispensing facilities, business or financial services,
convenience and neighborhood commercial centers
(excluding wholesale sales), family and group day care
facilities, libraries, mortuary and funeral homes, public
and governmental services, police and fire department
stations, places of religious worship, public utility sta-
tions, and restaurants.

Division 2. The following uses are permitted in a C,
Division 2 zone:

Any uses permitted in C, Division 1 zones, and light
commercial (excluding wholesale sales), group care
facilities, physical fitness centers, religious, cultural
and fraternal activities, rehabilitation centers, and
schools and colleges operated for profit (including
commercial, vocational and trade schools).

Division 3. The following uses are permitted in a C,
Division 3 zone:

Any uses permitted in C, Division 2 zones, and
amusement centers (including bowling alleys, golf
driving ranges, miniature golf courses, ice rinks, pool
and billiard halls, and similar recreational uses), auto-
motive sales, building material supply sales (wholesale
and retail), cultural institutions (such as museums and
art galleries), community commercial centers (includ-
ing wholesale and retail sales), health and medical
institutions (such as hospitals), hotels and motels
(excluding other residential occupancies), commercial

TABLE 602.1

printing and publishing, taverns and cocktail lounges,
indoor theaters, and self-storage warehouses.

Division 4. The following uses are permitted in a C,
Division 4 zone:

Any uses permitted in C, Division 3 zones, and
major automotive repair, commercial bakeries,
regional commercial centers (including wholesale and
retail sales), plastic products design, molding and
assembly, small metal products design, casting, fabri-
cating, and processing, manufacture and finishing, stor-
age yards, and wood products manufacture and
finishing.

CR Zone

Permitted (commercial/residential) (CR) zone uses shall

Division 1. The following uses are permitted in a CR,
Division 1 zone:

Any use permitted in a C, Division 1 zone, and resi-
dential use permitted, except in the story or basement
abutting street grade.

Division 2. The following uses are permitted in a CR,
Division 2 zone:

Any use permitted in a C, Division 2 zone, and resi-
dential use permitted, except in the story or basement
abutting street grade.

SECTION 602
BULK REGULATIONS

602.1 General. The minimum area, setbacks, density and
maximum height shall be as prescribed in Table 602.1.

COMMERCIAL (C) AND COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL (CR) ZONES BULK REGULATIONS
{in feet, unless noted otherwise)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MINIMUM LOT MAXIMUM LOT DIMENSIONS SETBACK REQUIREMENTS MAXIMUM
AREA DENSITY Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum BUILDING
DIVISION (square feet) (units/acre) lot width lot depth front yard side yard rear yard HEIGHT?
1 6,000 12 30 70 0 0 0 30
2 Not Applicable] Not Applicable 30 70 0 0 0 40
3 Not Applicable} Not Applicable 15 100 0 0 0 50
4 Not Applicable} Not Applicable 15 100 0 0 0 50
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m®, 1 acre = 4047 m’.

a. Accessory towers, satellite disks and similar structures shall be permitted to exceed the listed heights when approved by the code official.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

19


20

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 7
FACTORY/INDUSTRIAL ZONES

SECTION 701
FACTORY/INDUSTRIAL ZONES DEFINED

701.1 FI zones. Allowable factory/industrial (FI) zone uses
shall be:

Division 1. Any light-manufacturing or industrial use,
such as warehouses, research or testing laboratories, prod-
uct distribution centers, woodworking shops, auto body
shops, furniture assembly, dry cleaning plants, places of
religious worship, public and governmental services,
machine shops, and boat building storage yards.

Division 2. Any use permitted in the FI, Division 1 zone
and stadiums and arenas, indoor swap meets, breweries,
liquid fertilizer manufacturing, carpet manufacturing,
monument works, and a regional recycling center.

Division 3. Any use permitted in the FI, Division 2 zone
and auto-dismantling yards, alcohol manufacturing, cotton
gins, paper manufacturing, quarries, salt works, petroleum
refining, and other similar uses.

SECTION 702
BULK REGULATIONS

702.1 General. The minimum area, setbacks, density and
maximum height shall be as prescribed in Table 702.1.

TABLE 702.1
FACTORY/INDUSTRIAL (Fl) ZONE BULK REGULATIONS
{in feet, unless noted otherwise)

 

 

 

 

 

 

MINIMUM LOT LOT DIMENSIONS SETBACK REQUIREMENTS MAXIMUM
AREA MAXIMUM DENSITY | = Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum BUILDING
DIVISION (square feet) (units/acre) lot width lot depth front yard side yard rear yard HEIGHT?
1 Not Applicable Not Applicable 50 73 0 0 0 60
2 Not Applicable Not Applicable 15 100 0 0 0 80
3 Not Applicable Not Applicable 100 150 0 0 0 80

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m’, 1 acre = 4047 m*.
a. Accessory towers, satellite dishes and similar structures shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height when approved by the code official.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” 21

 


22

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 8
GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 801
OFF-STREET PARKING

801.1 General. Off-street parking shall be provided in com-
pliance with this chapter whenever any building is erected,
altered, enlarged, converted or increased in size or capacity.

801.2 Parking space requirements. Parking spaces shall be
in accordance with Sections 801.2.1 through 801.2.4.

801.2.1 Required number. The off-street parking spaces
required for each use permitted by this code shall not be
less than that found in Table 801.2.1, provided that any
fractional parking space be computed as a whole space.

TABLE 801.2.1
OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

USE NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED

Assembly 1 per 300 gross square feet

Dwelling unit 2 per dwelling unit

Health club 1 per 100 gross square feet

Hotel/motel i ber S00 corare tot common area

Industry 1 per 500 square feet

Medical office 1 per 200 gross square feet

Office 1 per 300 gross square feet

Restaurant 1 per 100 gross square feet

Retail 1 per 200 gross square feet

School 1 per 3.5 seats in assembly rooms plus
1 per faculty member

Warehouse 1 per 500 gross square feet

 

 

 

 

For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929 m*.

801.2.2 Combination of uses. Where there is a combina-
tion of uses on a lot, the required number of parking
spaces shall be the sum of that found for each use.

801.2.3 Location of lot. The parking spaces required by
this code shall be provided on the same lot as the use or
where the exclusive use of such is provided on another lot
not more than 500 feet (152 m) radially from the subject
lot within the same or less-restrictive zoning district.

801.2.4 Accessible spaces. Accessible parking spaces and
passenger loading zones shall be provided in accordance
with the building code. Passenger loading zones shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with ICC A117.1.

801.3 Parking stall dimension. Parking stall dimensions
shall be in accordance with Sections 801.3.1 and 801.3.2.

801.3.1 Width. A minimum width of 9 feet (2743 mm)
shall be provided for each parking stall.

Exceptions:

1. Compact parking stalls shall be permitted to be 8
feet (2438 mm) wide.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

2. Parallel parking stalls shall be permitted to be 8
feet (2438 mm) wide.

3. The width of a parking stall shall be increased 10
inches (254 mm) for obstructions located on
either side of the stall within 14 feet (4267 mm)
of the access aisle.

4. Accessible parking spaces shall be designed in
accordance with ICC A117.1.

801.3.2 Length. A minimum length of 20 feet (6096 mm)
shall be provided for each parking stall.

Exceptions:

1. Compact parking stalls shall be permitted to be
18 feet (5486 mm) in length.

2. Parallel parking stalls shall be a minimum 22 feet
(6706 mm) in length.

801.4 Design of parking facilities. The design of parking
facilities shall be in accordance with Sections 801.4.1
through 801.4.7.

801.4.1 Driveway width. Every parking facility shall be
provided with one or more access driveways, the width of
which shall be the following:

1. Private driveways at least 9 feet (2743 mm).
2. Commercial driveways:

2.1. Twelve feet (3658 mm) for one-way enter/
exit.

2.2. Twenty-four feet (7315 mm) for two-way
enter/exit.

801.4.2 Driveway and ramp slopes. The maximum slope
of any driveway or ramp shall not exceed 20 percent.
Transition slopes in driveways and ramps shall be pro-
vided in accordance with the standards set by the code
official and the jurisdiction’s engineer.

801.4.3 Stall access. Each required parking stall shall be
individually and easily accessed. No automobile shall be
required to back onto any public street or sidewalk to
leave any parking stall when such stall serves more than
two dwelling units or other than residential uses. All por-
tions of a public lot or garage shall be accessible to other
portions thereof without requiring the use of any public
street.

801.4.4 Compact-to-standard stall ratio. The maximum
ratio of compact stalls to standard stalls in any parking
area shall not exceed 1 to 2.

801.4.5 Screening. A 3-foot-high (914 mm) buffer at the
public way shall be provided for all parking areas of five
or more parking spaces.

23


GENERAL PROVISIONS

801.4.6 Striping. All parking stalls shall be striped.
Exception: A private garage or parking area for the
exclusive use of a single-family dwelling.

801.4.7 Lighting. All lights illuminating a parking area

shall be designed and located so as to reflect away from
any street and adjacent property.

SECTION 802
FENCE HEIGHTS

802.1 General. Fence and retaining wall heights in required
yards shall not exceed those found in Table 802.1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE 802.1
MAXIMUM FENCE HEIGHTS
HEIGHT
YARDS (feet)
Front 3.5
Rear 6.0
Side
Lot side 6.0
Street side 3.5
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
SECTION 803

LOCATION OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS

803.1 General. Accessory buildings shall occupy the same
lot as the main use or building.

803.2 Separation from main building. All accessory build-
ings shall be separated from the main building by 10 feet
(3048 mm).

803.3 Private garages. An accessory building used as a pri-
vate garage shall be permitted to be located in the rear yard
or side yard provided that setbacks are maintained and the
structures do not encroach into any recorded easements. The
building shall be permitted to be located in the front yard of a
sloping lot if the lot has more than a 10-foot (3048 mm) dif-
ference in elevation from midpoint of the front lot line to a
point 50 feet (15 240 mm) away midway between the side lot
lines.

803.4 Storage buildings. All accessory buildings used for
storage or other similar use shall be permitted to be located in
any portion of the rear yard or side yard. No storage building
shall be located in the front yard.

SECTION 804
ALLOWABLE PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS

804.1 General. Eaves, cornices or other similar architectural
features shall be permitted to project into a required yard no
more than 12 inches (305 mm). Chimneys shall be permitted
to project no more than 2 feet (610 mm), provided the width
of any side yard is not reduced to less than 30 inches (762
mm).

804.2 Front yards. Open, unenclosed ramps, porches, plat-
forms or landings, not covered by a roof, shall be permitted to
extend no more than 6 feet (1829 mm) into the required front

24

yard, provided such porch does not extend above the first
level and is no more than 6 feet (1829 mm) above grade at
any point.

804.3 Rear yards. Windows shall be permitted to project
into a required rear yard no more than 6 inches (152 mm).

SECTION 805
LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS

805.1 General. Landscaping is required for all new buildings
and additions over 500 square feet (46.5 m’) as defined in this
section. Said Jandscaping shall be completed within 1 year
from the date of occupancy of the building.

805.2 Front yards. Front yards required by this code shall be
completely landscaped, except for those areas occupied by
access driveways, walls and structures.

805.3 Street-side side yards. All flanking street-side side
yards shall be completely landscaped, except for those areas
occupied by utilities, access driveways, paved walks, walls
and structures.

805.4 Maintenance. All live /andscaping required by this
code shall be properly maintained. All dead or dying Jand-
scaping shall be replaced immediately and all sodded areas
mowed, fertilized and irrigated on a regular basis.

SECTION 806
LOADING SPACES

806.1 General. Loading spaces shall be provided on the same
lot for every building in the C or FI zones. No loading space
is required if prevented by an existing lawful building.

806.2 Size. Each loading space shall have a clear height of 14
feet (4267 mm) and shall be directly accessible through a
usable door not less than 3 feet (914 mm) in width and 6 feet,
8 inches (2032 mm) high. The minimum area of a loading
space shall be 400 square feet (37.2 m?) and the minimum
dimensions shall be 20 feet (6096 mm) long and 10 feet
(3048 mm) deep.

SECTION 807
PASSAGEWAYS

807.1 Residential entrances. There shall be a passageway
leading from the public way to the exterior entrance of each
dwelling unit in every residential building of not less than 10
feet (3048 mm) in width. The passageway shall be increased
by 2 feet (610 mm) for each story over two.

807.2 Separation between buildings. There shall be at least
10 feet (3048 mm) of clear space between every main build-
ing and accessory building on a lot. There shall be at least 20
feet (6096 mm) of clear space between every residential
building and another main building on the same lot.

807.3 Location of passageways. Passageways shall be per-
mitted to be located in that space set aside for required yards.
Passageways shall be open and unobstructed to the sky and
shall be permitted to have such projections as allowed for
yards, provided the users of said passageway have a clear

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


walkway to the public way. Any space between buildings or
passageways that has less width than that prescribed herein
shall not be further reduced.

SECTION 808
APPROVAL FOR AND AVAILABILITY OF
ESSENTIAL SERVICES

808.1 General. All projects that require the additional use of
new facilities or essential services, such as sewers, storm
drains, fire hydrants, potable water, public streets, street
lighting and similar services, shall obtain such approval as
required by the agency providing such service prior to project
approval.

Nonavailability of essential services shall be permitted to
be grounds for denying permits for additional development
until such services are available. The jurisdiction is not obli-
gated to extend or supply essential services if capacity is not
available. If capacity is available, the extension of services
shall be by and at the cost of the developer, unless the juris-
diction agrees otherwise. All service extensions shall be
designed and installed in full compliance with the jurisdic-
tion’s standards for such service, and shall be subject to
review, permit and inspection as required by other policies or
ordinances of the jurisdiction.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

GENERAL PROVISIONS

25


26

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL REGULATIONS

SECTION 901
HOME OCCUPATIONS

901.1 General. Home occupations shall be permitted in all
zones, provided the Aome occupation is clearly and obviously
subordinate to the main use or dwelling unit for residential
purposes. Home occupations shall be conducted wholly
within the primary structure on the premises.

901.2 Conditions.

1. The home occupation shall not exceed 15 percent of the
floor area of the primary structure.

2. Other than those related by blood, marriage or adop-
tion, no more than one person may be employed in the
home occupation.

3. Inventory and supplies shall not occupy more than 50
percent of the area permitted to be used as a Home occu-
pation.

4. There shall be no exterior display or storage of goods
on said premises.

5. Home occupations involving beauty shops or barber
shops shall require a conditional-use permit.

6. Sales and services to patrons shall be arranged by
appointment and scheduled so that not more than one
patron vehicle is on the premises at the same time.

7. Two additional parking spaces shall be provided on the
premises, except only one need be provided if the Home
occupation does not have an employee. Said parking
shall comply with the parking requirements in Chapter
8.

SECTION 902
ADULT USES

902.1 General. A conditional-use permit shall be obtained
for all adult-use businesses.

902.2 Provisions.

1. No adult-use business shall be located within 1,000 feet
(305 m) of a park, school, day care center, library or
religious or cultural activity.

2. No adult-use business shall be located within 500 feet
(152 m) of any other adult-use business or any agricul-
tural or residential zone boundary.

3. Such distances shall be measured in a straight line with-
out regard to intervening structures, topography and
zoning.

4. Said business shall be located in FI zones and shall not
be permitted as a home occupation.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


28

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 10
SIGN REGULATIONS

SECTION 1001
PURPOSE

1001.1 Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to protect the
safety and orderly development of the community through
the regulation of signs and sign structures.

SECTION 1002
DEFINITIONS

1002.1 Definitions. The following words and terms shall, for
the purposes of this chapter and as used elsewhere in this
code, have the meanings shown herein.

ABANDONED SIGN. A sign structure that has ceased to be
used, and the owner intends no longer to have used, for the
display of sign copy, or as otherwise defined by state law.

ANIMATED SIGN. A sign employing actual motion or the
illusion of motion. Animated signs, which are differentiated
from changeable signs as defined and regulated by this code,
include the following types:

Electrically activated. Animated signs producing the illu-
sion of movement by means of electronic, electrical or
electro-mechanical input and/or illumination capable of
simulating movement through employment of the charac-
teristics of one or both of the classifications noted below:

1. Flashing. Animated signs or animated portions of
signs whose illumination is characterized by a repet-
itive cycle in which the period of illumination is
either the same as or less than the period of nonillu-
mination. For the purposes of this ordinance, flash-
ing will not be defined as occurring if the cyclical
period between on-off phases of illumination
exceeds 4 seconds.

2. Patterned illusionary movement. Animated signs or
animated portions of signs whose illumination is
characterized by simulated movement through alter-
nate or sequential activation of various illuminated
elements for the purpose of producing repetitive
light patterns designed to appear in some form of
constant motion.

Environmentally activated. Animated signs or devices
motivated by wind, thermal changes or other natural envi-
ronmental input. Includes spinners, pinwheels, pennant
strings, and/or other devices or displays that respond to
naturally occurring external motivation.
Mechanically activated. Animated signs characterized by
repetitive motion and/or rotation activated by a mechani-
cal system powered by electric motors or other mechani-
cally induced means.
ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. Any projection that
is not intended for occupancy and that extends beyond the
face of an exterior wall of a building, but that does not

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

include signs as defined herein. See also “Awning;” “Backlit
awning;” and “Canopy, Attached and Free-standing.”

AWNING. An architectural projection or shelter projecting
from and supported by the exterior wall of a building and
composed of a covering of rigid or nonrigid materials and/or
fabric on a supporting framework that may be either perma-
nent or retractable, including such structures that are inter-
nally illuminated by fluorescent or other light sources.

AWNING SIGN. A sign displayed on or attached flat against
the surface or surfaces of an awning. See also “Wall or fascia
sign.”

BACKLIT AWNING. An awning with a translucent cover-

ing material and a source of illumination contained within its
framework.

BANNER. A flexible substrate on which copy or graphics
may be displayed.

BANNER SIGN. A sign utilizing a banner as its display sur-
face.

BILLBOARD. See “Off-premise sign” and “Outdoor adver-
tising sign.”

BUILDING ELEVATION. The entire side of a building,
from ground level to the roofline, as viewed perpendicular to
the walls on that side of the building.

CANOPY (Attached). A multisided overhead structure or
architectural projection supported by attachments to a build-
ing on one or more sides and either cantilevered from such
building or also supported by columns at additional points.
The surface(s) and/or soffit of an attached canopy may be
illuminated by means of internal or external sources of light.
See also “Marquee.”

CANOPY (Free-standing). A multisided overhead structure
supported by columns, but not enclosed by walls. The sur-
face(s) and or soffit of a free-standing canopy may be illumi-
nated by means of internal or external sources of light.

CANOPY SIGN. A sign affixed to the visible surface(s) of
an attached or free-standing canopy. For reference, see Sec-
tion 1003.

CHANGEABLE SIGN. A sign with the capability of con-
tent change by means of manual or remote input, including
signs which are:

Electrically activated. Changeable sign whose message
copy or content can be changed by means of remote elec-
trically energized on-off switching combinations of alpha-
betic or pictographic components arranged on a display
surface. Illumination may be integral to the components,
such as characterized by lamps or other light-emitting
devices; or it may be from an external light source
designed to reflect off the changeable component display.
See also “Electronic message sign or center.”

29


SIGN REGULATIONS

Manually activated. Changeable sign whose message
copy or content can be changed manually.

COMBINATION SIGN. A sign that is supported partly by a
pole and partly by a building structure.

COPY. Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and
graphic elements comprising the content or message of a
sign, excluding numerals identifying a street address only.

DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX SIGN. A free-standing sign
identifying a multiple-occupancy development, such as a
shopping center or planned industrial park, which is con-
trolled by a single owner or landlord, approved in accordance
with Section 1009.2 of this chapter.

DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign that is designed and
erected for the purpose of providing direction and/or orienta-
tion for pedestrian or vehicular traffic.

DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces, back to
back.

ELECTRIC SIGN. Any sign activated or illuminated by
means of electrical energy.

ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER. An elec-
trically activated changeable sign whose variable message
capability can be electronically programmed.

EXTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed outside a building.
FASCIA SIGN. See “Wall or fascia sign.”

FLASHING SIGN. See “Animated sign, electrically acti-
vated.”

FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign principally supported by
a structure affixed to the ground, and not supported by a
building, including signs supported by one or more columns,
poles or braces placed in or upon the ground. For visual refer-
ence, see Section 1003.

FRONTAGE (Building). The length of an exterior building
wall or structure of a single premise orientated to the public
way or other properties that it faces.

FRONTAGE (Property). The length of the property line(s)
of any single premise along either a public way or other prop-
erties on which it borders.

GROUND SIGN. See “Free-standing sign.”
ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign characterized by the use of
artificial light, either projecting through its surface(s) (inter-
nally illuminated); or reflecting off its surface(s) (externally
illuminated).

INTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed within a building, but
not including “window signs” as defined by this ordinance.
Interior signs, with the exception of window signs as defined,
are not regulated by this chapter.

MANSARD. An inclined decorative roof-like projection that
is attached to an exterior building facade.

MARQUEE. See “ Canopy (attached).”
MARQUEE SIGN. See “ Canopysign.”

MENU BOARD. A free-standing sign orientated to the
drive-through lane for a restaurant that advertises the menu
items available from the drive-through window, and which

30

has no more than 20 percent of the total area for such a sign
utilized for business identification.

MULTIPLE-FACED SIGN. A sign containing three or
more faces.

OFF-PREMISE SIGN. See “Outdoor advertising sign.”

ON-PREMISE SIGN. A sign erected, maintained or used in
the outdoor environment for the purpose of the display of
messages appurtenant to the use of, products sold on, or the
sale or lease of, the property on which it is displayed.

OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN. A permanent sign
erected, maintained or used in the outdoor environment for
the purpose of the display of commercial or noncommercial
messages not appurtenant to the use of, products sold on, or
the sale or lease of, the property on which it is displayed.

PARAPET. The extension of a building facade above the
line of the structural roof.

POLE SIGN. See “Free-standing sign.”

POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign intended to advance a
political statement, cause or candidate for office. A legally
permitted outdoor advertising sign shall not be considered to
be a political sign.

PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to
the ground or to a building or building surface.

PROJECTING SIGN. A sign other than a wall sign that is
attached to or projects more than 18 inches (457 mm) from a
building face or wall or from a structure whose primary pur-
pose is other than the support of a sign. For visual reference,
see Section 1003.

REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign advertising the
sale, lease or rental of the property or premises upon which it
is located.

REVOLVING SIGN. A sign that revolves 360 degrees (6.28
rad) about an axis. See also “Animated sign, mechanically
activated.”

ROOF LINE. The top edge of a peaked roof or, in the case
of an extended facade or parapet, the uppermost point of said
facade or parapet.

ROOF SIGN. A sign mounted on, and supported by, the
main roof portion of a building, or above the uppermost edge
of a parapet wall of a building and which is wholly or par-
tially supported by such a building. Signs mounted on man-
sard facades, pent eaves and architectural projections such as
canopies or marquees shall not be considered to be roof signs.
For a visual reference, and a comparison of differences
between roof and fascia signs, see Section 1003.

SIGN. Any device visible from a public place that displays
either commercial or noncommercial messages by means of
graphic presentation of alphabetic or pictorial symbols or rep-
resentations. Noncommercial flags or any flags displayed
from flagpoles or staffs will not be considered to be signs.

SIGN AREA. The area of the smallest geometric figure, or
the sum of the combination of regular geometric figures,
which comprise the sign face. The area of any double-sided
or “V” shaped sign shall be the area of the largest single face
only. The area of a sphere shall be computed as the area of a

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


circle. The area of all other multiple-sided signs shall be com-
puted as 50 percent of the sum of the area of all faces of the
sign.

SIGN COPY. Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols,
logos and graphic elements comprising the content or mes-
sage of a sign, exclusive of numerals identifying a street
address only.

SIGN FACE. The surface upon, against or through which the
sign copy is displayed or illustrated, not including structural
supports, architectural features of a building or sign structure,
nonstructural or decorative trim, or any areas that are sepa-
rated from the background surface upon which the sign copy
is displayed by a distinct delineation, such as a reveal or bor-
der. See Section 1003.

1. In the case of panel or cabinet type signs, the sign face
shall include the entire area of the sign panel, cabinet or
face substrate upon which the sign copy is displayed or
illustrated, but not open space between separate panels
or cabinets.

2. In the case of sign structures with routed areas of sign
copy, the sign face shall include the entire area of the
surface that is routed, except where interrupted by a
reveal, border, or a contrasting surface or color.

3. In the case of signs painted on a building, or individual
letters or graphic elements affixed to a building or
structure, the sign face shall comprise the sum of the
geometric figures or combination of regular geometric
figures drawn closest to the edge of the letters or sepa-
rate graphic elements comprising the sign copy, but not
the open space between separate groupings of sign
copy on the same building or structure.

4. In the case of sign copy enclosed within a painted or
illuminated border, or displayed on a background con-
trasting in color with the color of the building or struc-
ture, the sign face shall comprise the area within the
contrasting background, or within the painted or illumi-
nated border.

SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure supporting a sign.

TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign intended to display either
commercial or noncommercial messages of a transitory or
temporary nature. Portable signs or any sign not permanently
embedded in the ground, or not permanently affixed to a
building or sign structure that is permanently embedded in
the ground, are considered temporary signs.

UNDER CANOPY SIGN OR UNDER MARQUEE SIGN.
A sign attached to the underside of a canopy or marquee.

V SIGN. Signs containing two faces of approximately equal
size, erected upon common or separate structures, positioned
in a “V” shape with an interior angle between faces of not
more than 90 (1.57 rad) degrees with the distance between the
sign faces not exceeding 5 feet (1524 mm) at their closest
point.

WALL OR FASCIA SIGN. A sign that is in any manner
affixed to any exterior wall of a building or structure and that
projects not more than 18 inches (457 mm) from the building
or structure wall, including signs affixed to architectural pro-

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

SIGN REGULATIONS

jections from a building provided the copy area of such signs
remains on a parallel plane to the face of the building facade
or to the face or faces of the architectural projection to which
it is affixed. For a visual reference and a comparison of dif-
ferences between wall or fascia signs and roof signs, see Sec-
tion 1003.

WINDOW SIGN. A sign affixed to the surface of a window
with its message intended to be visible to and readable from
the public way or from adjacent property.

SECTION 1003
GENERAL SIGN TYPES

1003.1 General. Sign types and the computation of sign area
shall be as depicted in Figures 1003.1(1) through 1003.1(4).

SECTION 1004
GENERAL PROVISIONS

1004.1 Conformance to codes. Any sign hereafter erected
shall conform to the provisions of this ordinance and the pro-
visions of the Jnternational Building Code and of any other
ordinance or regulation within this jurisdiction.

1004.2 Signs in rights-of-way. No sign other than an official
traffic sign or similar sign shall be erected within 2 feet (610
mm) of the lines of any street, or within any public way,
unless specifically authorized by other ordinances or regula-
tions of this jurisdiction or by specific authorization of the
code official.

1004.3 Projections over public ways. Signs projecting over
public walkways shall be permitted to do so only subject to
the projection and clearance limits either defined herein or, if
not so defined, at a minimum height of 8 feet (2438 mm)
from grade level to the bottom of the sign. Signs, architec-
tural projections or sign structures projecting over vehicular
access areas must conform to the minimum height clearance
limitations imposed by the jurisdiction for such structures.

1004.4 Traffic visibility. No sign or sign structure shall be
erected at the intersection of any street in such a manner as to
obstruct free and clear vision, nor at any location where by its
position, shape or color it may interfere with or obstruct the
view of or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal
or device.

1004.5 Computation of frontage. If a premises contains
walls facing more than one property line or encompasses
property frontage bounded by more than one street or other
property usages, the sign area(s) for each building wall or
property frontage will be computed separately for each build-
ing wall or property line facing a different frontage. The sign
area(s) thus calculated shall be permitted to then be applied to
permitted signs placed on each separate wall or property line
frontage.

1004.6 Animation and changeable messages. Animated
signs, except as prohibited in Section 1006, are permitted in
commercial and industrial zones only. Changeable signs,
manually activated, are permitted for nonresidential uses in
all zones. Changeable signs, electrically activated, are permit-
ted in all nonresidential zones.

31


SIGN REGULATIONS

 

THE

PIZZA
HOUSE

 

 

 

ei

Med

MID STATE
UNIVERSITY

  

 

MONUMENT OR BLADE PYLON POLE GROUND OR LOW PROFILE
COMMON FREESTANDING SIGN TYPES

 

 

 

WALL OR FASCIA SIGNS ON STOREFRONTS

ALL AMERICAN SPORTING GOODS

 

 

ROOF SIGN

   

PROJECTING
SIGN

CANOPY SIGN

ON FREESTANDING CANOPY

FIGURE 1003.1(1)
GENERAL SIGN TYPES

32 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


SIDE ELEVATION

ROOF SIGNS

 

MAIN ROOF

SIDE ELEVATION

 

 

CANOPY,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SIGN REGULATIONS

SLOPING ROOF
MOUNT

FLAT ROOF
MOUNT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CANOPY MOUNT

 

 

 

NOT ROOF SIGN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SIDE ELEVATION

FASCIA SIGNS ON ROOF-LIKE PROJECTIONS

SIDE ELEVATION

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

   
 
    

NOT ROOF SIGN

 

 

 

 

NOT ROOF SIGN

MANSARD MOUNT

  
  

PENT EAVE MOUNT

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

FIGURE 1003.1(2)
COMPARISON—ROOF AND WALL OR FASCIA SIGNS

 

33


SIGN REGULATIONS

MetroLand

BANK

    
    
  
   
 

 

MID STATE
UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

I | |

Village Center

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

ACE PHARMACY

 

SPORTING LIFE

arrowhead

 
         
        
     
      

SIGN STRUCTURES

SIGN STRUCTURE
WITH ROUTED
AREA OF SIGN
COPY

SIGN STRUCTURE
WITH INDIVIDUAL
SURFACE-
APPLIED
GRAPHIC AND
LETTERS.
COMPUTE SUM
OF AREA
AROUND
ELEMENTS.

reveal

Notes: Sum of shaded areas only represents sign area. Sign constructed with panels or cabinets.

FIGURE 1003.1(3)
SIGN AREA—COMPUTATION METHODOLOGY

34 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


SIGN REGULATIONS

COMPUTE AREAAROUND
COPY ELEMENTS ONLY.

COMPUTE AREA
INSIDE DEFINED
BORDER OR >
INSIDE

CONTRASTING
COLOR AREA.

 

COMPUTE SUM OF
AREAS OF INDIVIDUAL
ELEMENTS ON WALL
OR STRUCTURE.

A
Arrowhead

 

 

 

IN COMPUTING AREA FOR UPPER-
AND LOWER-CASE LETTERING,
INCLUDE ASCENDERS OR
DESCENDERS, BUT NOT BOTH.
CALCULATE SUPER ASCENDERS
SEPARATELY AS INDICATED.

Notes: Sum of shaded areas only represents sign area for code compliance purposes. Examples of signs consisting of individual letters, elements or logos placed
on building walls or structures.

FIGURE 1003.1(4)
SIGN AREA—COMPUTATION METHODOLOGY

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” 35


SIGN REGULATIONS

1004.7 Maintenance, repair and removal. Every sign per-
mitted by this ordinance shall be kept in good condition and
repair. When any sign becomes insecure, in danger of falling
or is otherwise deemed unsafe by the code official, or if any
sign shall be unlawfully installed, erected or maintained in
violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance, the owner
thereof or the person or firm using same shall, upon written
notice by the code official forthwith in the case of immediate
danger, and in any case within not more than 10 days, make
such sign conform to the provisions of this ordinance, or shall
remove it. If within 10 days the order is not complied with,
the code official shall be permitted to remove or cause such
sign to be removed at the expense of the owner and/or the
user of the sign.

1004.8 Obsolete sign copy. Any sign copy that no longer
advertises or identifies a use conducted on the property on
which said sign is erected must have the sign copy covered or
removed within 30 days after written notification from the
code official; and upon failure to comply with such notice,
the code official is hereby authorized to cause removal of
such sign copy, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid
by the owner of the building, structure or ground on which
the sign is located.

1004.9 Nonconforming signs. Any sign legally existing at
the time of the passage of this ordinance that does not con-
form in use, location, height or size with the regulations of
the zone in which such sign is located, shall be considered a
legal nonconforming use or structure and shall be permitted
to continue in such status until such time as it is either aban-
doned or removed by its owner, subject to the following limi-
tations:

1. Structural alterations, enlargement or re-erection are
permissible only where such alterations will not
increase the degree of nonconformity of the signs.

2. Any legal nonconforming sign shall be removed or
rebuilt without increasing the existing height or area if
it is damaged, or removed if allowed to deteriorate to
the extent that the cost of repair or restoration exceeds
50 percent of the replacement cost of the sign as deter-
mined by the code official.

3. Signs that comply with either Item 1 or 2 above need
not be permitted.

SECTION 1005
EXEMPT SIGNS

1005.1 Exempt signs. The following signs shall be exempt
from the provisions of this chapter. No sign shall be exempt
from Section 1004.4.

1. Official notices authorized by a court, public body or
public safety official.

2. Directional, warning or information signs authorized by
federal, state or municipal governments.

36

3. Memorial plaques, building identification signs and
building cornerstones when cut or carved into a
masonry surface or when made of noncombustible
material and made an integral part of the building or
structure.

4. The flag of a government or noncommercial institution,
such as a school.

5. Religious symbols and seasonal decorations within the
appropriate public holiday season.

6. Works of fine art displayed in conjunction with a com-
mercial enterprise where the enterprise does not receive
direct commercial gain.

7. Street address signs and combination nameplate and
street address signs that contain no advertising copy
and which do not exceed 6 square feet (0.56 m’) in area.

SECTION 1006
PROHIBITED SIGNS

1006.1 Prohibited signs. The following devices and loca-
tions shall be specifically prohibited:

1. Signs located in such a manner as to obstruct or other-
wise interfere with an official traffic sign, signal or
device, or obstruct or interfere with a driver’s view of
approaching, merging or intersecting traffic.

2. Except as provided for elsewhere in this code, signs
encroaching upon or overhanging public right-of-way.
No sign shall be attached to any utility pole, light stan-
dard, street tree or any other public facility located
within the public right-of-way.

3. Signs which blink, flash or are animated by lighting in
any fashion that would cause such signs to have the
appearance of traffic safety signs and lights, or munici-
pal vehicle warnings from a distance.

4. Portable signs except as allowed for temporary signs.

5. Any sign attached to, or placed on, a vehicle or trailer
parked on public or private property, except for signs
meeting the following conditions:

5.1. The primary purpose of such a vehicle or trailer
is not the display of signs.

5.2. The signs are magnetic, decals or painted upon
an integral part of the vehicle or equipment as
originally designed by the manufacturer, and do
not break the silhouette of the vehicle.

5.3. The vehicle or trailer is in operating condition,
currently registered and licensed to operate on
public streets when applicable, and actively used
or available for use in the daily function of the
business to which such signs relate.

6. Vehicles and trailers are not used primarily as static
displays, advertising a product or service, nor utilized
as storage, shelter or distribution points for commercial
products or services for the general public.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


7. Balloons, streamers or pinwheels except those tempo-
rarily displayed as part of a special sale, promotion or
community event. For the purposes of this subsection,
“temporarily” means no more than 20 days in any cal-
endar year.

SECTION 1007
PERMITS

1007.1 Permits required. Unless specifically exempted, a
permit must be obtained from the code official for the erec-
tion and maintenance of all signs erected or maintained
within this jurisdiction and in accordance with other ordi-
nances of this jurisdiction. Exemptions from the necessity of
securing a permit, however, shall not be construed to relieve
the owner of the sign involved from responsibility for its
erection and maintenance in a safe manner and in a manner in
accordance with all the other provisions of this ordinance.

1007.2 Construction documents. Before any permit is
granted for the erection of a sign or sign structure requiring
such permit, construction documents shall be filed with the
code official showing the dimensions, materials and required
details of construction, including loads, stresses, anchorage
and any other pertinent data. The permit application shall be
accompanied by the written consent of the owner or lessee of
the premises upon which the sign is to be erected and by engi-
neering calculations signed and sealed by a registered design
professional where required by the Jnternational Building
Code.

1007.3 Changes to signs. No sign shall be structurally
altered, enlarged or relocated except in conformity to the pro-
visions herein, nor until a proper permit, if required, has been
secured. The changing or maintenance of movable parts or
components of an approved sign that is designed for such
changes, or the changing of copy, business names, lettering,
sign faces, colors, display and/or graphic matter, or the con-
tent of any sign shall not be deemed a structural alteration.

1007.4 Permit fees. Permit fees to erect, alter or relocate a
sign shall be in accordance with the fee schedule adopted
within this jurisdiction.

SECTION 1008
SPECIFIC SIGN REQUIREMENTS

1008.1 Identification signs. Identification signs shall be in
accordance with Sections 1008.1.1 through 1008.1.3.

1008.1.1 Wall signs. Every single-family residence, mul-
tiple-family residential complex, commercial or industrial
building, and every separate nonresidential building in a
residential zone may display wall signs per street frontage
subject to the limiting standards set forth in Table
1008.1.1(1). For shopping centers, planned industrial
parks or other multiple occupancy nonresidential build-
ings, the building face or wall shall be calculated sepa-
rately for each separate occupancy, but in no event will the
allowed area for any separate occupancy be less than
|JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

SIGN REGULATIONS

TABLE 1008.1.1(1)
IDENTIFICATION SIGN STANDARDS—WALL SIGNS

 

AGGREGATE AREA

LAND USE (square feet)

 

JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|

Single-family residential

 

Muttiple-family residential | |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER]

 

Nonresidentlal in a JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBERI

residential zone

 

Commercial and industrial See Table1008.1.1(2)

 

 

 

 

For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929 m’.
TABLE 1008.1.1(2)

 

SIGN AREA
DISTANCE OF SIGN FROM
ROAD OR ADJACENT
COMMERCIAL OR PERCENTAGE OF BUILDING ELEVATION
INDUSTRIAL ZONE PERMITTED FOR SIGN AREA

 

Oto 100 feet |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|

 

101 to 300 feet |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|

 

Over 301 feet |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|

 

 

 

 

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.

1008.1.2 Free-standing signs. In addition to any allow-
able wall signs, every single-family residential subdivi-
sion, multiple-family residential complex, commercial or
industrial building, and every separate nonresidential
building in a residential zone shall be permitted to display
free-standing or combination signs per street frontage sub-
ject to the limiting standards set forth in Table 1008.1.2.

1008.1.3 Directional signs. No more than two directional
signs shall be permitted per street entrance to any lot.
There shall be no limit to the number of directional signs
providing directional information interior to a lot. In resi-
dential zones, the maximum area for directional signs shall
be |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet. For all
other zones, the maximum area for any directional sign
visible from adjacent property or rights-of-way shall be
|JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet. Not more
than 25 percent of the area of any directional sign shall be
permitted to be devoted to business identification or logo,
which area shall not be assessed as identification sign area.

1008.2 Temporary signs. Temporary signs shall be in accor-
dance with Sections 1008.2.1 through 1008.2.6.

1008.2.1 Real estate signs. Real estate signs shall be per-
mitted in all zoning districts, subject to the following limi-
tations:

1. Real estate signs located on a single residential lot
shall be limited to one sign, not greater than |JURIS-
DICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet in height and
|JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet in
area.

2. Real estate signs advertising the sale of lots located
within a subdivision shall be limited to one sign per
entrance to the subdivision, and each sign shall be
no greater than |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|
square feet in area nor |JURISDICTION TO INSERT
NUMBER| feet in height. All signs permitted under
this section shall be removed within 10 days after
sale of the last original lot.

37


SIGN REGULATIONS

3. Real estate signs advertising the sale or lease of
space within commercial or industrial buildings
shall be no greater than |JURISDICTION TO INSERT
NUMBER| square feet in area nor |JURISDICTION TO
INSERT NUMBER| feet in height, and shall be limited
to one sign per street front.

4. Real estate signs advertising the sale or lease of
vacant commercial or industrial land shall be lim-
ited to one sign per street front, and each sign shall
be no greater than |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUM-
BER| feet in height, and |JURISDICTION TO INSERT
NUMBER| square feet for property of 10 acres (40
470 m’) or less, or 100 square feet (9.3 m?) for prop-
erty exceeding 10 acres (40 470 m’).

5. Real estate signs shall be removed not later than 10
days after execution of a lease agreement in the
event of a lease, or the closing of the sale in the
event of a purchase.

1008.2.2 Development and construction signs. Signs
temporarily erected during construction to inform the pub-
lic of the developer, contractors, architects, engineers, the
nature of the project or anticipated completion dates, shall
be permitted in all zoning districts, subject to the follow-
ing limitations:

1. Such signs on a single residential lot shall be limited
to one sign, not greater than |JURISDICTION TO
INSERT NUMBER| feet in height and |JURISDICTION TO
INSERT NUMBER] square feet in area.

2. Such signs for a residential subdivision or multiple
residential lots shall be limited to one sign, at each
entrance to the subdivision or on one of the lots to be
built upon, and shall be no greater than |JURISDIC-
TION TO INSERT NUMBER] feet in height and |JURIS-
DICTION TO INSERT NUMBER] square feet in area.

3. Such signs for nonresidential uses in residential dis-
tricts shall be limited to one sign, and shall be no
greater than |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet

in height and |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|
square feet in area.

4. Such signs for commercial or industrial projects
shall be limited to one sign per street front, not to
exceed |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER] feet in
height and |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|
square feet for projects on parcels 5 acres (20 235
m’) or less in size, and not to exceed |JURISDICTION
TO INSERT NUMBER| feet in height and |JURISDICTION
TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet for projects on par-
cels larger than 5 acres (20 235 m’).

5. Development and construction signs may not be dis-
played until after the issuance of construction per-
mits by the building official, and must be removed
not later than 24 hours following issuance of an
occupancy permit for any or all portions of the proj-
ect.

1008.2.3 Special promotion, event and grand opening
signs. Signs temporarily displayed to advertise special
promotions, events and grand openings shall be permitted
for nonresidential uses in a residential district, and for all
commercial and industria! districts subject to the follow-
ing limitations:

1. Such signs shall be limited to one sign per street

front.

2. Such signs may be displayed for not more than 30
consecutive days in any 3-month period, and not
more than 60 days in any calendar year. The signs
shall be erected no more than 5 days prior to the
event or grand opening, and shall be removed not
more than 1 day after the event or grand opening.

3. The total area of all such signs shall not exceed
|JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet in
any single-family residential district, |JURISDICTION
TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet in any multiple-fam-
ily residential district and |JURISDICTION TO INSERT
NUMBER| square feet in any commercial or indus-
trial district.

TABLE 1008.1.2
IDENTIFICATION SIGN STANDARDS—FREE-STANDING SIGNS*"*

 

 

 

 

 

HEIGHT AREA
LAND USE NUMBER OF SIGNS (feet) (square feet) SPACING
Single-family residential JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION TO 1 per subdivision entrance*
8 y INSERT NUMBER| INSERT NUMBER| INSERT NUMBER| Py

Multiple-family residential \JURISDICTION TO \JURISDICTION TO \JURISDICTION TO 1 per driveway?
P ¥ INSERT NUMBER| INSERT NUMBER| INSERT NUMBER| P ¥

Nonresidential in a residential zone \JURISDICTION TO \JURISDICTION TO \JURISDICTION TO 3002

INSERT NUMBER| INSERT NUMBER| INSERT NUMBER|
ve) aed becca |JURISDICTION TO See Figures 1008.1.2 | See Figures 1008.1.2 '
Commercial and industrial INSERT NUMBER] (1), (2) and (3) (1), (2) and (3) 150)

 

 

 

 

 

 

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m*, 1 acre = 4047 m*.

a. For subdivision or apartment identification signs placed ona decorative entry wall approved by the code official, two identification signs shall be permitted to
be placed at each entrance to the subdivision or apartment complex, one on each side of the driveway or entry drive.

 

b. For shopping centers or planned iadustria/ parks, two monument-style free-standing signs not exceeding 50 percent each of the permitted height and area, and
spaced not closer than 100 feet to any other free-standing identification sign, shall be permitted to be allowed in lieu of any free-standing sign otherwise

permitted in Table 1008.1.2.

c. For any commercial or industriai development complex exceeding 1,000,000 square feet of gross leasable area, or 40 acres in size, such as regional shopping
centers, auto malls or planned é#dustrial parks, one free-standing sign per street front shall be permitted to be increased in sign area by up to 50 percent.

38

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


SIGN REGULATIONS

 

 

200

wm
be 35S
a 4
zs ; ©

15
2 3
5 2
5 2 <
Z, w
= 100 ra
B Z
< HH
Z g
A 50 fe
| 20
a 30 3
3 2
5 —
< 0 50 100 150 ~—-200 250 300 a
& OVER
LINEAL FRONT FOOTAGE

 

 

 

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m’, 1 mile per hour = 1.609 km/h.

FIGURE 1008.1.2(1)
ON-PREMISE FREE-STANDING SIGNS/COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
VEHICULAR SPEED SUBJECT TO POSTED LIMITS UNDER 35 MILES PER HOUR

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” 39


SIGN REGULATIONS

 

 

300

jaa
40 g
a we
a oO
a ea
a 225 >
4 5
< 4
2 <
gy 35 og
i)
Z, a
= 150 om
= Z

Z,
o a
n xq
a ® 25 y
a 45 a
< <
= =
oO oO
4 4
3 3
< 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 <

& OVER
LINEAL FRONT FOOTAGE

 

 

 

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m’, 1 mile per hour = 1.609 km/h.

FIGURE 1008.1.2(2)
ON-PREMISE FREE-STANDING SIGNS/COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
VEHICULAR SPEED SUBJECT TO POSTED LIMITS BETWEEN 35 AND 55 MILES PER HOUR (INCLUSIVE)

40 2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


SIGN REGULATIONS

 

450

60

375

300

45

225

150

715

ALLOWABLE SIGN AREA IN SQUARE FEET
ALLOWABLE HEIGHT IN FEET ABOVE GRADE

25

 

0 50 100 150 200 250 300
& OVER

LINEAL FRONT FOOTAGE

 

 

 

For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m’, 1 mile per hour = 1.609 km/h

FIGURE 1008.1.2(3)
ON-PREMISE FREE-STANDING SIGNS/COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
VEHICULAR SPEED SUBJECT TO POSTED LIMITS ABOVE 55 MILES PER HOUR

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” 41


SIGN REGULATIONS

1008.2.4 Special event signs in public ways. Signs adver-
tising a special community event shall not be prohibited in
or over public rights-of-way, subject to approval by the
code official as to the size, location and method of erec-
tion. The code official may not approve any special event
signage that would impair the safety and convenience of
use of public rights-of-way, or obstruct traffic visibility.

1008.2.5 Portable signs. Portable signs shall be permitted
only in the C, CR and FI districts, as designated in this
code, subject to the following limitations:

1. No more than one such sign may be displayed on
any property, and shall not exceed a height of |JURIS-
DICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet nor an area of
|JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet.

2. Such signs shall be displayed not more than 20 days
in any calendar year.

3. Any electrical portable signs shall comply with
NFPA 70, as adopted in this jurisdiction.

4. No portable sign shall be displayed prior to obtain-
ing a sign permit.

1008.2.6 Political signs. Political signs shall be permitted

in all zoning districts, subject to the following limitations:

1. Such signs shall not exceed a height of |JURISDIC-
TION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet nor an area of |JURIS-
DICTION TO INSERT NUMBER] square feet.

2. Such signs for election candidates or ballot proposi-
tions shall be displayed only for a period of 60 days
preceding the election and shall be removed within
10 days after the election, provided that signs pro-
moting successful candidates or ballot propositions
in a primary election may remain displayed until not
more than 10 days after the general election.

3. Such signs shall not be placed in any public right-of-
way or obstruct traffic visibility.

1008.3 Requirements for specific sign types. Signs of spe-
cific type shall be in accordance with Sections 1008.3.1
through 1008.3.7.

42

1008.3.1 Canopy and marquee signs.

1. The permanently-affixed copy area of canopy or
marquee signs shall not exceed an area equal to 25
percent of the face area of the canopy, marquee or
architectural projection upon which such sign is
affixed or applied.

2. Graphic striping, patterns or color bands on the face
of a building, canopy, marquee or architectural pro-
jection shall not be included in the computation of
sign copy area.

1008.3.2 Awning signs.

1. The copy area of awning signs shall not exceed an
area equal to 25 percent of the background area of
the awning or awning surface to which such a sign is
affixed or applied, or the permitted area for wall or
fascia signs, whichever is less.

2. Neither the background color of an awning, nor any
graphic treatment or embellishment thereto such as
striping, patterns or valances, shall be included in
the computation of sign copy area.

1008.3.3 Projecting signs.

1. Projecting signs shall be permitted in lieu of free-
standing signage on any street frontage limited to
one sign per occupancy along any street frontage
with public entrance to such an occupancy, and shall
be limited in height and area to |JURISDICTION TO
INSERT NUMBER] square feet per each |JURISDICTION
TO INSERT NUMBER| lineal feet of building frontage,
except that no such sign shall exceed an area of
|JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet.

2. No such sign shall extend vertically above the high-
est point of the building facade upon which it is
mounted by more than |JURISDICTION TO INSERT
NUMBER| percent of the height of the building
facade.

3. Such signs shall not extend over a public sidewalk in
excess of |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| percent
of the width of the sidewalk.

4. Such signs shall maintain a clear vertical distance
above any public sidewalk a minimum of |JURISDIC-
TION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet.

1008.3.4 Under canopy signs.

1. Under canopy signs shall be limited to no more than
one such sign per public entrance to any occupancy,
and shall be limited to an area not to exceed |JURIS-
DICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| square feet.

2. Such signs shall maintain a clear vertical distance
above any sidewalk or pedestrian way a minimum of
|JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| feet.

1008.3.5 Roof signs.

1. Roof signs shall be permitted in commercial and
industrial districts only.

2. Such signs shall be limited to a height above the
roofline of the elevation parallel to the sign face of
no more than |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER|
percent of the height of the roofline in commercial
districts, and |JURISDICTION TO INSERT NUMBER| per-
cent of the height of the roofline in industrial dis-
tricts.

3. The sign area for roof signs shall be assessed against
the aggregate permitted area for wall signs on the
elevation of the building most closely parallel to the
face of the sign.

1008.3.6 Window signs. Window signs shall be permitted
for any nonresidential use in a residential district, and for
all commercial and industria] districts, subject to the fol-
lowing limitations:

1. The aggregate area of all such signs shall not exceed
25 percent of the window area on which such signs
are displayed. Window panels separated by muntins

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


or mullions shall be considered as one continuous
window area.

2. Window signs shall not be assessed against the sign
area permitted for other sign types.

1008.3.7 Menu boards. Menu board signs shall not be
permitted to exceed 50 square feet (4.6 m’).

SECTION 1009
SIGNS FOR DEVELOPMENT COMPLEXES

1009.1 Master sign plan required. All landlord or single-
owner controlled multiple-occupancy development com-
plexes on parcels exceeding 8 acres (32 376 m) in size, such
as shopping centers or planned industrial parks, shall submit
to the code official a master sign plan prior to issuance of new
sign permits. The master sign plan shall establish standards
and criteria for all signs in the complex that require permits,
and shall address, at a minimum, the following:

1. Proposed sign locations.
2. Materials.

3. Type of illumination.

4. Design of free-standing sign structures.
5. Size.

6. Quantity.

7

. Uniform standards for nonbusiness signage, including
directional and informational signs.

1009.2 Development complex sign. In addition to the free-
standing business identification signs otherwise allowed by
this ordinance, every multiple-occupancy development com-
plex shall be entitled to one free-standing sign per street front,
at the maximum size permitted for business identification
free-standing signs, to identify the development complex. No
business identification shall be permitted on a development
complex sign. Any free-standing sign otherwise permitted
under this ordinance may identify the name of the develop-
ment complex.

1009.3 Compliance with master sign plan. All applications
for sign permits for signage within a multiple-occupancy
development complex shall comply with the master sign plan.

1009.4 Amendments. Any amendments to a master sign plan
must be signed and approved by the owner(s) within the
development complex before such amendment will become
effective.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

SIGN REGULATIONS

43


44

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES

SECTION 1101
GENERAL

1101.1 Continuance. Except as otherwise required by law, a
structure or use legally established prior to the adoption date
of this code may be maintained unchanged. In other than
criminal proceedings, the owner, occupant or user shall have
the burden to show that the structure, lot or use was lawfully
established.

SECTION 1102
DISCONTINUANCE

1102.1 Vacancy. Any lot or structure, or portion thereof,
occupied by a nonconforming use, which is or hereafter
becomes vacant and remains unoccupied by a nonconforming
use for a period of 6 months shall not thereafter be occupied,
except by a use that conforms to this code.

1102.2 Damage. If any nonconforming structure or use is, by
any cause, damaged to the extent of 50 percent of its value as
determined by the code official, it shall not thereafter be
reconstructed as such.

SECTION 1103
ENLARGEMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS

1103.1 Maintenance and repair. Maintenance, repairs and
structural alterations shall be permitted to be made to noncon-
forming structures or to a building housing a nonconforming
use with valid permits.

1103.2 Changes of nonconforming use. A change of use of
a nonconforming use of a structure or parcel of land shall not
be made except to that of a conforming use. Where such
change is made, the use shall not thereafter be changed back
to a nonconforming use.

1103.3 Additions. All additions to nonconforming structures
and parking areas shall conform to the requirements of this
code. Additions to structures housing nonconforming uses
that increase the area of a nonconforming use shall not be
made.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


46

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 12
CONDITIONAL USES

SECTION 1201
GENERAL

1201.1 Conditional-use permit. A conditional-use permit
shall be obtained for certain uses, which would become har-
monious or compatible with neighboring uses through the
application and maintenance of qualifying conditions and
located in specific locations within a zone, but shall not be
allowed under the general conditions of the zone as stated in
this code.

SECTION 1202
APPLICATIONS

1202.1 Submittal. All conditional-use permit applications
shall be submitted to the code official as provided in this
code. All applications shall be accompanied by maps, draw-
ings, statements or other documents in accordance with the
provisions of Section 105.7.4. An appropriate fee shall be
collected at the time of submittal as determined by the juris-
diction.

SECTION 1203
PUBLIC HEARING

1203.1 Hearing and action. Prior to the approval, amending
or denial of a conditional-use permit, a public hearing shall
be held in accordance with the provisions of Section 109.1.
Upon the completion of said public hearing, the commission
or examiner shall render a decision within a time limit as
required by law.

SECTION 1204
DETERMINATION

1204.1 Authorization. The hearing examiner on appeal, shall
have the authority to impose conditions and safeguards as
deemed necessary to protect and enhance the health, safety
and welfare of the surrounding area. The authorization of a
conditional-use permit shall not be made unless the evidence
presented is such to establish:

1. That such use will not, under the specific circumstances
of the particular case, be detrimental to the health,
safety or general welfare of the surrounding area and
that the proposed use is necessary or desirable and pro-
vides a service or facility that contributes to the general
well being of the surrounding area.

2. That such use will comply with the regulations and
conditions specified in this code for such use.

3. The planning commission or hearing examiner shall
itemize, describe or justify, then have recorded and
filed in writing, the conditions imposed on the use.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

SECTION 1205
EXPIRATION AND REVOCATION

1205.1 General. A conditional-use permit shall be consid-
ered exercised when the use has been established or when a
building permit has been issued and substantial construction
accomplished. When such permit is abandoned or discontin-
ued for a period of 1 year, it shall not be reestablished, unless
authorized by the planning commission, hearing examiner or
legislative body on appeal.

A conditional-use permit shall be revoked when the appli-
cant fails to comply with conditions imposed by the hearing
examiner.

SECTION 1206
AMENDMENTS

1206.1 General. An amendment to an approved conditfonal-
use permit shall be submitted to the code official accompa-
nied by supporting information. The planning commission or
hearing examiner shall review the amendment and shall be
permitted to grant, deny or amend such amendment and
impose conditions deemed necessary.

SECTION 1207
CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW CRITERIA

1207.1 General. A request for a conditional use shall be per-
mitted to be approved, approved with conditions or denied.
Each request for a conditional use approval shall be consis-
tent with the criteria listed below:

1. The request is consistent with all applicable provisions
of the comprehensive plan.

2. The request shall not adversely affect adjacent proper-
ties.

3. The request is compatible with the existing or allow-
able uses of adjacent properties.

4. The request can demonstrate that adequate public facil-
ities, including roads, drainage, potable water, sanitary
sewer, and police and fire protection exist or will exist
to serve the requested use at the time such facilities are
needed.

5. The request can demonstrate adequate provision for
maintenance of the use and associated structures.

6. The request has minimized, to the degree possible,
adverse effects on the natural environment.

7. The request will not create undue traffic congestion.

8. The request will not adversely affect the public health,
safety or welfare.

9. The request conforms to all applicable provisions of
this code.

47


48

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 13
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT

SECTION 1301
GENERAL

1301.1 Approval. Planned unit developments (PUDs) shall
be allowed by planning commission approval in any zoning
district. No such planned unit development permit shall be
granted unless such development will meet the use limita-
tions of the zoning district in which it is located and meet the
density and other limitations of such districts, except as such
requirements may be lawfully modified as provided by this
code. Compliance with the regulations of this code in no way
excuses the developer from the applicable requirements of a
subdivision ordinance, except as modifications thereof are
specifically authorized in the approval of the application for
the planned unit development.

1301.2 Intent. These regulations are to encourage and pro-
vide means for effecting desirable and quality development
by permitting greater flexibility and design freedom than that
permitted under the basic district regulations, and to accom-
plish a well-balanced, aesthetically satisfying city and eco-
nomically desirable development of building sites within a
PUD. These regulations are established to permit latitude in
the development of the building site if such development is
found to be in accordance with the purpose, spirit and intent
of this ordinance and is found not to be hazardous, harmful,
offensive or otherwise adverse to the environment, property
values or the character of the neighborhood or the health,
safety and welfare of the community. It is intended to permit
and encourage diversification, variation and imagination in
the relationship of uses, structures, open spaces and heights
of structures for developments conceived and implemented as
comprehensive and cohesive unified projects. It is further
intended to encourage more rational and economic develop-
ment with relationship to public services, and to encourage
and facilitate the preservation of open lands.

SECTION 1302
CONDITIONS

1302.1 Area. No planned unit development shall have an area
less than that approved by the planning commission as ade-
quate for the proposed development.

1302.2 Uses. A planned unit development which will contain
uses not permitted in the zoning district in which it is to be
located will require a change of zoning district and shall be
accompanied by an application for a zoning amendment,
except that any residential use shall be considered a permitted
use in a planned unit development, which allows residential
uses and shall be governed by density, design and other
requirements of the planned unit development permit.

Where a site is situated in more than one use district, the
permitted uses applicable to such property in one district may
be extended into the adjacent use district.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

1302.3 Ownership. The development shall be in single or
corporate ownership at the time of application, or the subject
of an application filed jointly by all owners of the property.

1302.4 Design. The planning commission shall require such
arrangements of structures and open spaces within the site
development plan as necessary to ensure that adjacent proper-
ties will not be adversely affected.

1302.4.1 Density. Density of land use shall in no case be
more than 15 percent higher than allowed in the zoning
district.

1302.4.2 Arrangement. Where feasible, the least height
and density of buildings and uses shall be arranged around
the boundaries of the development.

1302.4.3 Specific regulations. Lot area, width, yard,
height, density and coverage regulations shall be deter-
mined by approval of the site development plan.

1302.5 Open spaces. Preservation, maintenance and owner-
ship of required open spaces within the development shall be
accomplished by either:

1. Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway sys-
tem; or

2. Creating a permanent, open space easement on and
over the said private open spaces to guarantee that the
open space remain perpetually in recreational use, with
ownership and maintenance being the responsibility of
an owners’ association established with articles of asso-
ciation and bylaws, which are satisfactory to the legis-
lative body.

1302.6 Landscaping. Landscaping, fencing and screening
related to the uses within the site and as a means of integrat-
ing the proposed development into its surroundings shall be
planned and presented to the planning commission for
approval, together with other required plans for the develop-
ment. A planting plan showing proposed tree and shrubbery
plantings shall be prepared for the entire site to be developed.
A grading and drainage plan shall also be submitted to the
planning commission with the application.

1302.7 Signs. The size, location, design and nature of signs,
if any, and the intensity and direction of area or floodlighting
shall be detailed in the application.

1302.8 Desirability. The proposed use of the particular loca-
tion shall be shown as necessary or desirable, to provide a
service or facility that will contribute to the general well
being of the surrounding area. It shall also be shown that
under the circumstances of the particular case, the proposed
use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general
welfare of persons residing in the vicinity of the planned unit
development.

49


PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT

SECTION 1303

PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION

1303.1 Considerations. In carrying out the intent of this sec-

tion,

the planning commission shall consider the following

principles:

1.

It is the intent of this section that site and building plans
for a PUD shall be prepared by a designer or team of
designers having professional competence in urban
planning as proposed in the application. The commis-
sion shall be permitted to require the applicant to
engage such professional expertise as a qualified
designer or design team.

. It is not the intent of this section that control of the

design of a PUD by the planning commission be so rig-
idly exercised that individual initiative be stifled and
substantial additional expense incurred; rather, it is the
intent of this section that the control exercised be the
minimum necessary to achieve the purpose of this sec-
tion.

. The planning commission shall be authorized to

approve or disapprove an application for a PUD.

In an approval, the commission shall be permitted to

attach such conditions as it deems necessary to secure
compliance with the purposes set forth in this chapter. The
denial of an application for a PUD by the planning com-
mission shall be permitted to be appealed to the legislative
body of the jurisdiction.

SECTION 1304
REQUIRED CONTRIBUTIONS

1304.1 General. The legislative body, as part of the approval
of a PUD, shall be permitted to require an applicant to make
reasonable contributions to include, but not limited to any
combination of the following:

1.
2.
3.

Dedication of land for public park purposes.
Dedication of land for public school purposes.

Dedication of land for public road right-of-way pur-
poses.

. Construction of, or addition to, roads serving the pro-

posed project when such construction or addition is rea-
sonably related to the traffic to be generated.

5. Installation of required traffic safety devices.

. Preservation of areas containing significant natural,

environmental, historic, archeological or similar
resources.

SECTION 1305
PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION

1305.1 Approval. The planning commission shall have the
authority to require that the following conditions for a

50

planned unit development (among others it deems appropri-
ate) be met by the applicant:

1. That the proponents intend to start construction within

1 year of either the approval of the project or of any
necessary zoning district change, and intend to com-
plete said construction, or approved stages thereof,
within 4 years from the date construction begins.

2. That the development is planned as one complex land

use rather than as an aggregation of individual and
unrelated buildings and uses.

1305.2 Limitations on application.

1. Upon approval of a PUD, construction shall proceed

only in accordance with the plans and specifications
approved by the planning commission and in compli-
ance with any conditions attached by the jurisdiction as
to its approval.

. Amendment to approved plans and specifications for a

PUD shall be obtained only by following the proce-
dures here outlined for first approval.

3. The code official shall not issue any permit for any pro-

posed building, structure or use within the project
unless such building, structure or use is in accordance
with the approved development plan and with any con-
ditions imposed in conjunction with its approval.

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


CHAPTER 14
REFERENCED STANDARDS

This chapter lists the standards that are referenced in various sections of this document. The standards are listed herein by the
promulgating agency of the standard, the standard identification, the effective date and title, and the section or sections of this
document that reference the standard.

ICC

International Code Council, Inc.
500 New Jersey Ave, NW

6th Floor

Washington, DC 20001

 

 

Standard Referenced
reference in code
number Title section number
IBC—12 International Building Code occ cece cece eevee ees 201.3, 202, 1004.1, 1007.2
ICC Al117.1—09 Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities 2.000.000.0000 801.2.4, 801.3.1
IMC—12 International Mechanical Code* . 0.2.00. 0 0.00 eet tect eee e ee es 201.3

 

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE” 51


52

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


INDEX

A
ACCESSORY BUILDING ................ 202, 803
ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS........ 202, 501.1
ACCESSORY USE .........0..000. 0 cece eee 202
ADULT USES .......00..000. ccc cece cess 902
AGRICULTURE...........00..000.. 000. 202, 401
PV = 202
ALTERATION .......00..000.00cc ccc ee seus 202
AMENDMENTS......................0..00. 109
AMUSEMENT CENTER................ 202, 601.1
ANNEXED TERRITORY ..............0..000. 304
APARTMENT HOUSE.................. 202, 501.1
APPEALS 0.00000... cc cece eee ee eee 109
APPROVALS...00..000..0 00.0 cece cece sees 111
AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MAJOR ......... 202, 601.1
AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MINOR.......... 202, 601.1
AUTOMOTIVE SELF-SERVICE MOTOR
FUEL DISPENSING FACILITY......... 202, 601.1
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE MOTOR FUEL
DISPENSING FACILITY.............. 202, 601.1
B
BASEMENT......0....000..00 0c ccc cece eeu ee 202
BOARD 2.000... occ ccc cece cece eee eee 202
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT .................. 107
BOARDING HOUSE ...................00004 202
BUILDING ..0 0.000.000 cece cece eee 202
BUILDING, MAIN ...............00..0000 00. 202
BUILDING, TEMPORARY.................... 202
BUILDING CODE ...............00..00 0000 202
BUILDING HEIGHT...................000004 202
BUILDING LINE ................00..00 0000 202
BUILDINGS, ACCESSORY.......... 202, 501.1, 803
BUSINESS OR FINANCIAL
SERVICES ..000...0 00.00 cece eee 202, 601.1
Cc
CANOPY 00.0. o cece ccc eee 202
COMMERCIAL, HEAVY .............0....00. 202
COMMERCIAL, LIGHT...................0.. 202
COMMERCIAL CENTER, COMMUNITY ........ 202
COMMERCIAL CENTER, CONVENIENCE ...... 202
COMMERCIAL CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD ... . 202
COMMERCIAL CENTER, REGIONAL.......... 202
COMMERCIAL RETAIL SALES AND
SERVICES 2.00... c occ cece cece e eee 202
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE.............. 106

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.................... 202
CONDITIONAL USE.............. 202, Chapter 12
Amendments.........0 00000 c eee eee 1206
Applications... 0.0.0. 1202
Determination... 0.0... eee 1204
Expiration 0... eee 1205
Public hearing... 60... eee eee 1203
Review criteria... eee 1207
Revocation 6... eae 1205
CONDITIONAL USES....................0005 305
CONDOMINIUM.....................0.00008 202
CONGREGATE RESIDENCE ........... 202, 501.1
CONTRIBUTIONS, REQUIRED .............. 1304
COURT ..... 00. eee 202
D
DAY CARE, FAMILY .................. 202, 601.1
DAY CARE, GROUP................... 202, 601.1
DEFINITIONS ..................00 0008 Chapter 2
DENSITY .... 00.0... eee ee 202, 1302.4.1
DRIVEWAY ................. 202, 801.4.1, 801.4.2
DWELLING, MULTIPLE UNIT........... 202, 501.1
DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY................. 202
DWELLING, TWO FAMILY ................... 202
DWELLING UNIT.................0 000000005 202
E
EASEMENT................... 202, 803.3, 1302.5
ESSENTIAL SERVICES, APPROVAL FOR
AND AVAILABILITY OF ................... 808
EXISTING BUILDINGS, AND USES............ 103
F
FACE OF BUILDING, PRIMARY............... 202
FARMANIMALS .................00.00 000 ee 202
FEES 00. ees 102
FENCE HEIGHTS ................ 00.0000 00s 802
FLOOR AREA, GROSS ..................05. 202
FLOOR AREA, NET .................00 00005 202
FRONTAGE...............0. 0000000 202, 1004.5
G
GARAGE, PRIVATE.............. 202, 501.1, 803.3
GENERAL PROVISIONS ............... Chapter 8
GRADE (Adjacent Ground Elevation).......... 202
GROUP CARE FACILITY .............. 202, 601.1
53


INDEX

H
HABITABLE SPACE (Room)................. 202
HEARING EXAMINER..................00.. 108
HEARINGS... 0.0.00. 0 000 c cece eee es 109
HOME OCCUPATION................... 202, 901
HOSPITAL .........0 06000 c eee eee 202, 601.1
HOUSEHOLD PETS............... 000000005 202
I
INDUSTRIAL OR RESEARCH PARK .......... 202,
1008.1.1, 1009.1
J
JURISDICTION. 00.0... 202
K
KITCHEN .... 2.0... 00. 202
L
LANDSCAPING ..................000 05 202, 805
LEGISLATIVE BODY ....................0.. 202
LIVESTOCK .... 0.0... 0c cee ee 202
LOADING SPACES ............. 0.000 cee 806
LOT. eects 202
M
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY ................. 202
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT.................. 202
MANUFACTURING, MEDIUM................ 202
MORTUARY, FUNERAL HOME.......... 202, 601.1
MOTEL, HOTEL....................0, 202, 601.1
N
NONCONFORMING LOT.................... 202
NONCONFORMING SIGNS................ 1004.9
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE
AND USES..................., 202, Chapter 11
NONCONFORMING USE.................... 202
oO
OPEN SPACE............ 0.0 cece eee eee 202
Pp
PARK ........... 202, 401.1, 501.1, 1302.5, 1304.1
PARKING LOT ..................00005. 202, 501.1
PARKING, OFF STREET.................... 801
PARKING SPACE, ACCESSIBLE ..... 801.2.4, 801.3
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE......... 202, 801

54

PASSAGEWAYS .. 00. ee 807
PERMITS ....0. 000.000. 111
PERSON......0.. 000.0 eee 202
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
(PUD)... 0... eee 202, Chapter 13
Conditions... 0. ee 1302
General... ne 1301
PLANNING COMMISSION................... 105
ACtiON. oe 1305
Determination. ..... 0.0... 0. cece 1303
PLOT PLAN ............ 00... eee eee ee 202
POOLS, SWIMMING, HOT TUBS AND
SPAS 200 202, 501.1
PROJECTION INTO YARDS ................. 804
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.................... 202
PUBLIC SERVICES .................. 202, 1301.2
PUBLIC UTILITY STATION ............. 202, 601.1
PUBLIC WAY ........... 101.3, 202, 601.1, 801.4.5,
1004.2, 1004.3, 1008.2.4
PURPOSE........00 0.0.00 cece eee 101.2
Q
QUASI-PUBLIC.......0.0.. 000.0... 202
QUORUM .........0 00.0. 202
R
RECREATION, INDOOR..................... 202
RECREATION, OUTDOOR................... 202
RECYCLING FACILITY .................000. 202
REGISTERED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL....... 202
REHABILITATION CENTER
(Halfway House) ................... 202, 601.1
RELIGIOUS, CULTURAL AND
FRATERNAL ACTIVITY........ 202, 601.1, 902.2
RENOVATION...............0 00.0 cee eee 202
RESTAURANT .................00000 202, 601.1
Ss
SCHOOL.................... 501.1, 902.2, 1304.1
SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL ................... 202
SCOPE... eee 101.3
SETBACK..................00. 202, 402.1, 502.1,
602.1, 702.1, 803.3
SIGN REGULATIONS................. Chapter 10
SITE PLAN REVIEWS ............... 104.5.2, 202
SLEEPING UNIT.............0.0 00.00. c eee 202
STORY 200... eee 202
STREET ©... ee 202
STREET, PRIVATE...........0 00.0000. eee 202
STRUCTURE ........0.. 0.000 c cee eee 202

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


STRUCTURE,
NONCONFORMING ............ 202, Chapter 11
Discontinuance... 6.0.0... 1102
Enlargements, modifications .............., 1103
SUBDIVISION ... 0.0.0.0... cece eee 202
T
THEATER ..... 0... cece cee eee 202, 601.1
0 101.1
U
USE eee eee 103, 104.6, 202
USE, ADDITIONS ...................0005. 1103.3
USE, CHANGES OF .................. 202, 1103.2
USE DISTRICTS .................00005 Chapter 3
Agricultural 6... eee Chapter 4
Classifications... 0.0. 301
Commercial/residential................ Chapter 6
Factory/industrial ... 0.0.0.0... 0.0.00, Chapter 7
Minimum areaS. 0.0... ee 302
Residential 0.0... ... 0.00... cece Chapter 5
USE, NONCONFORMING............. 202, 1102.1,
1103.1, 1103.2
USE, PRINCIPAL ................0.0 cece 202
USE, TEMPORARY...............0.0.0 00005 202
USES, NONCONFORMING ............ Chapter 11
Discontinuance. ... 0.0.0... 1102
Enlargements. .....0. 0.0... c cee 1103
Modifications... 0... ... 0... cee eee 1103
Vv
VARIANCE ................00005 104.5.3, 107.7.2,
107.7.3, 107.8, 202
VIOLATIONS ..... 0... eee 110
WwW
WAREHOUSE, WHOLESALE OR
STORAGE.......... 00... c eee ee 202, 601.1
Y
YARD... 202, 804, 805
YARD, FRONT...............0.. 202, 804.2, 805.2
YARD, REAR........ 00000 202, 804.3
YARD, SIDE. .......... 0... eee 202, 805.3
zZ
ZONING CODE OFFICIAL, POWERS AND
DUTIES... 0... eee 104
ZONING MAP ............ 0.0. c cece eee 303

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”

INDEX

55


56

2012 INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE”


De

rm] 3 COU ta] is PCC cate eC ma oth

 

=
I m agi n e === enjoying membership benefits that

help you stay competitive in today’s
tight job market.

I magin @..... increasing your code knowledge and sharpening yourjob skills with special

member discounts on:

- World-class training and educational programs to help you keep your
competitive edge while earning CEUs and LUs

= The latest code-related news to enhance your career potential

= Member Discounts on code books, CDs, specialized publications, and
training materials to help you stay on top of the latest code changes and
become more valuable to your organization.

PLUS — having exclusive access to code opinions from experts to answer
your code-related questions

Imagine. == extra benefits such as Member-Only privileged access to peers in online
discussion groups
as well as access to the industry’s leading periodical, the Building Safety
Journal Online®.

I magi Ne... . receiving these valuable discounts, benefits, and more by simply becoming
a member of the nation’s leading developer of building
safety codes, the International Code Council’.

limnagtine thal

Free code book(s) - New members receive a
free book or set of books (depending on
membership category) from the latest
edition of the International Codes.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

JOIN TODAY!
888-ICC-SAFE, x33804
member@iccsafe.org
www.iccsafe.org


 

UE SEE
owt] SUT

  

_, ¥ 2 a

Code Officials — ICC Training covers
the essential administrative and legal
issues facing code departments!

Whether you are a new or experienced code professional, it is critical to understand the administrative
and legal aspects of code administration. ICC offers the training you need to get you up-to-speed on the

latest trends by focusing on practical, logical explanations of the legal and administrative terminology
you need to understand.

 

ICC is the world’s premier organization for building safety and sustainability. Code enforcement

officials, architects, engineers, and contractors all turn to ICC for information, certification, training,
and guidance on code compliance and sustainability.

ICC offers Seminars, Institutes, and Webinars designed to keep code professionals up-to-speed on
emerging issues. Continuing Education Units (CEUs) are awarded and recognized in many states.

Understand the latest administrative and legal issues in code enforcement!

For more information on ICC training, visit www.iccsafe.org/Education
or call 1-888-422-7233, ext. 33818.

 

   

 


bee eer \ Ae
f -! far ae f a o ». . im |
ie Ps sia . : a
eh fe” =

ee TE

; ‘a
rh
> :
ey
os
—_
4 -*

elyAccepted and Trusted | | /

ae

i
bs

S Mos
Y ae x | :

i
~
pe
a 5

(ma ND
» SERVICE y

International Codes. Together, ICC-ES and ICC incorporate proven techniques and
practices into codes and related products and services that foster safe and sustainable

design and construction.

www.icc-es.org

 


 

  
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    

  

« is your online portal to the International Codes®, State Codes and
other electronic resources. The site offers you two formats: eCodes
Premium Subscription and eCodes PDF Downloads.

Asubscription to eCodes Premium has Powerful Features:

* Create customized online libraries by purchasing different ICC products and other third-party
references and standards.

Embedded ES-Reports.

Document Comparison—ability to compare different versions and/or years of the same code,
standard or commentary.

Add notes, graphics, hyperlinks to other web sites, and other documents to your reference
material section by section.

Keyword and highlighting search features.

Receive automatic updates of code changes.

Copy, paste and print from your Personal Library.

eCodes Premium Subscriptions are Macintosh and Windows compatible /~s

*
eCodes PDF Downloads:
An eCodes PDF Download offers immediate access to your digital references. eCodes PDF
Downloads are protected by a digital rights-management system that requires Adobe Reader 8.0
(or later version) to register and view the PDF. They can be purchased in single-user format and
selected codes are available in 5-user, 10-user, 25-user and 50-user licenses.

 

Note: These files are not networkable. aie
eCodes PDF downloads are Macintosh and Windows compatible ,
For iPad users: download y our free iPad app at www. iccsafe.org/ICCMarket. +

*Connection to iTunes is needed. PDF's must be purchased through iTunes and work on the
iPad Device only.

 

Note: This application does not work on the iPhone.

eae, |


