
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CITY OF VALLEY ZONING ORDINANCE 
 

 

ORDINANCE NO. 99-07 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

ADOPTED JUNE 28TH. 1999 
 

 

AMENDED February 2020 
 

 
 
 
 

Original Ordinance prepared by House Consultants 
Birmingham, Alabama 

 

 

NOTE: THIS IS A COMPILATION OF THE CITY OF VALLEY ZONING ORDINANCE 

WITH ALL AMENDMENTS TO DATE. IT IS FORMATTED BY THE PLANNING 

DEPARTMENT STAFF AND MADE AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC FOR YOUR 

CONVENIENCE. IT IS HOWEVER A COMPILATION.  FOR MORE INFORMATION 

ON PREVIOUS AMENDMENTS, CONTACT THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT. 



 

2 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 

ARTICLE I SHORT TITLE 5 

 

ARTICLE II 
 

PURPOSE AND METHOD 
 

5 

 

Section 1.0 
 

Purpose 
 

5 

Section 2.0 Method 6 

 

ARTICLE III 
 

ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES 
 

7 

 

Section 1.0 
 

General Administration 
 

7 

Section 2.0 Zoning Amendments 11 

Section 3.0 Board of Zoning Adjustment 13 

 

ARTICLE IV 
 

DEFINITIONS 
 

16 

 

ARTICLE V 
 

GENERAL REGULATI0NS 
 

23 

 

Section 1.0 
 

General Use Requirements 
 

23 

Section 2.0 Nonconforming Uses of Land and Buildings 24 

Section 3.0 Annexed Property 26 

Section 4.0 Abandoned Right-of-Way 26 

Section 5.0 Access to Public Streets  26 

Section 6.0 Area Modification of Lots of Record 26 

Section 7.0 General Yard and Building Setback Modifications 27 

Section 8.0 Height Modifications 27 

Section 9.0 Eaves, Porches, Decks and Accessory Structures 27 

 

ARTICLE VI 
 

ZONING DISTRICTS 
 

28 

 

Section 1.0 
 

Forestry-Agriculture-Recreation District (FAR) 
 

28 

Section 2.0 Rural Residential District (RR) 31 

Section 3.0 Low Density Residential District (R-1) 33 

Section 4.0 Medium Density Residential District (R-2) 34 

Section 5.0 Medium Density Residential District (R-3) 36 

Section 6.0 Medium Density Residential District (R-4) 38 

Section 7.0 Medium Density Residential District (R-5) 41 

Section 8.0 High Density Residential District (R-6) 44 

Section 9.0 Manufactured Home Subdivision District (MHR) 46 

Section 10.0 Manufactured Home Park District (MH) 48 



 

3 

Section 11.0 Institution District (I) 51 

Section 12.0 Office District (O) 52 

Section 13.0 Neighborhood Business District (C-1) 53 

Section 14.0 Local Business District (C-2) 55 

Section 15.0 Community Business District (C-3) 57 

Section 16.0 Light Industrial District (M-1) 60 

Section 17.0 Heavy Industrial District (M-2) 61 

Section 18.0 Planned Development District (PDD) 63 

Section 19.0 Redevelopment District (RD) 73 

Section 20.0 Park District (PK) 74 

Section 21.0 River Park District (RP)                                                              75 

Section 22.0 Medical Park District (MP) 77 

 
ARTICLE VII SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS 79 

 
Section 1.0 Fences and Walls  79 

Section 2.0 Temporary Structures and Buildings 

Material Storage 79 

Section 3.0 Outdoor Storage of Recreational 

and Other Vehicles 79 

Section 4.0 Storage of Inoperable Motor Vehicles 80 

Section 5.0 Private Swimming Pools 80 

Section 6.0 Private Tennis Courts 81 

Section 7.0 Storage and Dispensing of Combustible 

and Flammable Liquids 81 

Section 8.0 Each Business to be Located in Permanent Building (Deleted) 81 
Section 9.0 Exterior Lighting 82 

Section 10.0 Garbage and Trash Containers 82 

Section 11.0 Self-Service Storage Facilities 82 

Section 12.0 Accessory Antennas 84 

Section 13.0 Home Occupations 86 

   

 

ARTICLE VIII 
 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES 
 

88 

 

Section 1.0 
 

Purpose 
 

88 

Section 2.0 

Section 3.0 

Applicability 

Availability of Suitable Existing Towers and 

Other Structures 

88 

 
90 

Section 4.0 Principal Use to be on Lots 90 

Section 5.0 Setbacks 90 

Section 6.0 Aesthetics and Lighting 90 

Section 7.0 Federal Requirements 91 

Section 8.0 Building Codes and Safety Standards 91 

Section 9.0 Radio Frequency Standards 92 

Section 10.0 Permits 93 



 

4 

 

Section 11.0 

Section 12.0 

Application Requirements 

Factors Considered When Granting 

Special Exception Permits for Towers 

94 

 
95 

Section 13.0 Removal of Abandoned Antennas and Towers 96 

 

ARTICLE IX 
 

OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING 

REQUIREMENTS 

 
 

97 

 

Section 1.0 
 

Parking Requirements for Specific Uses 
 

97 

Section 2.0 Rules in Applying Off-Street Parking Standards                  100 

Section 3.0 Loading Area Requirements 101 

 

ARTICLE X 
 

BUFFERS AND LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS 
 

102 

 

Section 1.0 
 

Purpose and Objectives 
 

102

0 Section 2.0 Landscaping Plan 102 

Section 3.0 Buffers 103 

Section 4.0 Landscaping for Parking and Vehicle Areas 104 

Section 5.0 Enforcement 105 

 

ARTICLE XI 
 

LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS 
 

106 

 

Section 1.0 
 

Interpretation and Purpose 
 

106 

Section 2.0 Serviceability Clause 106 

Section 3.0 Effective Date 106 

 

AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE 2005-12 107 

 
 AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE 2006-13 109 

 

   AMENDED ORDINANCE 2020-



 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

AN ORDINANCE, IN PURSUANCE OF THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY TITLE 

11, CHAPTER 52, ARTICLE 4, CODE OF ALABAMA, 1975, AS AMENDED AND 

SUPPLANTED BY ALL APLICABLE LAWS TO PROVIDE FOR THE 

ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF 

VALLEY, ALABAMA: TO REGULATE WITHIN SUCH DISTRICTS THE HEIGHT, 

NUMBER OF STORIES, AND SIZE OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES, 

THE PERCENTAGE OF LOTS THAT MAY BE OCCUPIED, THE SIZE OF YARDS 

AND OTHER OPEN SPACES, THE DENSITY OF POPULATION AND USE OF 

BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND LAND: TO REPEAL ALL EXISTING ZONING 

ORDINANCES AND TO PROVIDE METHODS OF ADMINISTRATION OF THIS 

ORDINANCE AND PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF. 

 
THE PUBLIC WELFARE REQUIRING IT, be it ordained by the City of Valley, 

Alabama, as follows: 
 

 
 

ARTICLE I. SHORT TITLE 

 
This Ordinance shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of Valley, Alabama,” and the 

map herein referred to, identified by the title “Zoning Map of Valley, Alabama,” shall be 

further identified by the signature of the Mayor of Valley and attested by the City Clerk. 

The zoning map of Valley is hereby adopted and made a part of the Ordinance. Said 

zoning map shall zone only territory within Valley. Such map is filed with the Clerk of 

Valley at the time of the introduction of this Ordinance, will remain on file in the office 

of the said Clerk and upon the adoption of the Ordinance, said map will show by 

endorsement thereon the date of such adoption. 

ARTICLE II. PURPOSE AND METHOD 

Section 1.0. Purpose. 
 
The fundamental purpose of this Ordinance is to promote the public health, safety, morals 

and general welfare; to provide for the orderly development and growth of Valley; to avoid 

congestion on the public roads and streets; to conserve life, property and natural resources 

and the expenditure of funds for public improvements and services to conform with the 

most advantageous uses of land, resources and properties, for the general good and benefit 

to the people of Valley. 



 

6 

 
 
 
 
 

Section 2.0. Method. 

 
For the purpose hereinafter stated, the City of Valley is divided into districts of such 

number, shape and area, and of such common unite of purpose, adaptability or use, which 

are deemed most suitable to provide for the best general civic use, protect the common 

rights and interests within each district, preserve the general rights, and interests of all; and 

by further regulations to limit the location, uses and occupancy of buildings, structures and 

land to be used for trade, industry, residence or other structures, including the ratio of lots 

occupancy and coverage, street setback lines, sizes of yards, and other open spaces. 

 
2.1. Zoning Districts. In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the location of buildings 

designed for specific uses, to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter 

erected or structurally altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of the land area, 

and to regulate and determine the areas of open spaces within and surrounding such 

buildings, the City of Valley, Alabama, is hereby divided into the following zoning 

districts: 

 
2.11. FAR Forestry, Agriculture and Recreation District 

 
2.12. Residential Districts 

A.  Rural – Residential District 

B.  R-1 Low Density Residential District 

C.  R-2 Medium Density Residential District 

D.  R-3 Medium Density Residential District 

E.  R-4 Medium Density Residential District 

F.  R-5 Medium Density Residential District 

G.  R-6 High Density Residential District 

H.  MHR Manufactured Home Subdivision District 

I.   MH Manufactured Home Park District 

 
2.13. Institution District (I) 

 
2.14.  Office District (O) 

 
2.15.  Commercial Districts. 

A.  C-1 Neighborhood Business District 

B.  C-2 Local Business District 

C.  C-3 Community Business District 

2.16.  Industrial Districts 

A.  M-1 Light Industrial District 

B.   M-2 Heavy Industrial District 



 

7 

 

2.17. PDD Planned Development District  

 

2.18. RD Redevelopment District 

 

   2.19. Park Districts  

             A.   PK- Park District  

             B.   RP- River Park 

              C.   MP-Medical Park 

 

 
2.2 Zoning Map. The boundaries of the districts are as shown on the map which shall be 

known as the “Valley Zoning Map.” Unless otherwise shown on said Zoning Map, the 

boundaries of districts are lot lines, the centerlines of streets or alleys or such lines 

extended, railroad right-of-way lines, or the corporate limit lines as they existed at the 

time of enactment of this Ordinance. 

 
2.3. Interpretation of District Boundaries. The Zoning Administrator shall make an 

interpretation of the “Valley Zoning Map” upon request of any person. Where uncertainty 

exists as to the boundaries of any district shown on said maps the following rules shall 

apply: 

 
A.  Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following street and alley 

lines o r  land lot lines, such lines shall be construed to lie along such 

boundaries. 

 
B.  In un-sub-divided property or tracts where a district boundary divides a lot, 

the location of such boundaries, unless same are indicated by dimensions, 

shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on such maps. 

 
C.  Where boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the 

centerlines or street line of streets or to the centerlines or alley lines of alleys 

or to the centerlines or right-of-way lines of highways, such boundaries shall 

be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance there from as 

indicated on the Zoning Map. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall 

be determined by the use of the scale shown on the said maps. 
 

 
 

ARTICLE  III. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES 

Section 1.0. General Administration 

The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning 

Administrator of the City. This official shall have the right to enter upon any premises at 

any reasonable time prior to the issuance of certificate of occupancy or occupancy of the 

dwelling for the purpose of making inspections of buildings or premises necessary to 

carry out his duties in the enforcement of this Ordinance. 



 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1.1 Building Permits. It shall be unlawful to commence earthwork or the construction of    

any building or other structure, including accessory structures, signs, or to store  

building materials or erect temporary field offices, or to commence the moving,                      

alteration, or repair of any structure, including accessory structure, until the Zoning 

Administrator of the City has issued for such work a building permit including a statement 

that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure in all respects conform with 

the provisions of this Ordinance. Application for a building permit shall be made to the 

Zoning Administrator of the City on forms provided for that purpose. Every building 

permit shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced 

within six months after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended 

or abandoned for a period of six months after the time the work is commenced. 
Permits shall be required prior to commencement of any of the following types of work. In case of 

emergencies, work done after 5:00 pm, holidays, or over the weekend, permits shall be obtained the 

next business day.   

A. Building Permits. New buildings or structures, including accessory structures, additions, 

alterations, any structural work, signs, fences, pools, driveways etc.  

B. Electrical. Any construction, replacement or expansion of electrical lines, new or 

replacement services. 

C. Heating Ventilation/Air Conditioning (HVAC). Any new HVAC work, AC unit 

replacement or extension of services. 

D. Plumbing. Any new lines, replacement of existing lines including services from the meter or 

any portion thereof. 

E. Roofing. Any new roofing or replacement of existing roofs. 

F. Land Disturbance. Any grading or excavating of land which disturbs more than 2500 square 

feet. All land disturbance permits shall include an erosion control plan. Sloped banks shall not 

exceed a 2 to 1 ratio (2 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical). An ADEM NPDES permit shall be 

required on any disturbance over 1 acre. 

G. Demolition. Any demolition of structures larger than 1,000 square feet but less than 4,000 

square feet. Structures larger than 4,000 square feet shall comply with the city’s Demolition 

Ordinance 2014-09. 

Permits shall not be required for any cosmetic work including painting, siding, cabinetry or 

replacement of existing appliances and fixtures provided that no new services (electrical, gas or 

plumbing) are required. 

 
1.2 Review of Building Permit Applications. It shall be unlawful for the Zoning  

Administrator of the City to approve any plans or issue a building permit for any 

excavation or construction until he has inspected such plans in detail and found them in  

conformity with this Ordinance. However, within the City limits there exist large tracts of land  

that are not part of a planned residential subdivision. The Zoning Administrator shall be allowed to  

make exceptions to these zoning requirements on said tracts containing two acres or more provided  

that the intent of this ordinance is met.   



 

9 

 

. 

Said plan shall include: 

 
A. The boundary and dimensions of the lot or parcel. 

 
B.     The shape, size, use, and location of all buildings, signs, or other 

structures to be erected, altered or moved and of any buildings or 

other structures already on the lot, both above and below existing 

grade. 

 
C. The existing and proposed facilities for the disposal of storm water 

drainage. 

 
D. The setback and side lines of buildings on adjoining lots and such 

other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be 

essential for determining conformance with the provisions of this 

Ordinance. 

 
E. Written certification from the appropriate authority regarding the 

adequacy of sanitary sewage disposal for the site. 

 
F. Every application for the use of land under and by virtue of the 

provisions of this Ordinance shall include therewith a map 

showing the location of necessary fire hydrants with adequate fire 

flow. 

 
In addition thereto, the applicant shall submit a written agreement 

between the applicant and the appropriate water authority, which 

agreement shall specify that the applicant shall assume the 

responsibility for purchasing and having installed such fire 

hydrants as required by the appropriate fire department, and that 

the applicant shall agree to pay the annual rental therefore, and 

such other charges that may be levied by the water authority for 

a period of three (3) years from the date of their installation. Such 

agreement shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for his 

and the fire department’s approval and shall be in full force and 

effect at the time of the issuance of any building permit provided 

for there under. 

 
G. In the event such application requests such a permit for the 

construction of a theater, hotel, state building, private school 

building or a commercially structured building containing fifteen 

(15) or more rooms, the applicant shall furnish to the Zoning 

Administrator a written certification from the applicant’s architect 

affirming that the plans have been approved by the Building 

Commission of the State of Alabama. 

 



 

10 

1.21. Approval of Building Permit Applications. If the proposed excavation, construction, 

moving, or alteration as set forth in the application, are in conformity with the provisions of 

this Ordinance and other applicable regulations, the Zoning Administrator of the City shall 

issue a building permit accordingly. 

 
1.22. Denial of Building Permit Application. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the 

applicant in writing that his or her building permit has been denied and said notification 

shall state the reasons for denial. 

 
1.3. Certificate of Occupancy. No land or building or other structure or part thereof 

hereafter erected, moved or altered in its use shall be used or occupied, including an 

increase in the number of dwellings, until the Zoning Administrator of the City shall have 

issued a Certificate of Occupancy. Within three (3) days after the owner or his agent has 

notified the Zoning Administrator of the City that a building or premises or part thereof is 

ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator of the City to 

make a final inspection thereof, to issue a Certificate of Occupancy if the building or 

premises are found to conform with the provisions of this Ordinance and other applicable 

regulations or, if such certificate is refused, to notify such applicant in writing of the 

refusal and the cause or causes therefore. 

 
1.4. Expiration of Building Permit. Any permit under which no construction work has 

been done above the foundation wall or other foundation support within six (6) months 

from the date of issuance shall expire by limitation, but shall upon reapplication be 

renewable, subject, however, to the provisions of all ordinances in force at the time of 

said renewal. In no event shall any permit be renewed more than one time. 

 
1.5. Unlawful Structure. Any uses of land or dwellings or construction or alteration of 

buildings, or structures erected, altered, razed or converted in violation of any of the 

provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be a nuisance per se. The Zoning 

Administrator is hereby authorized to apply to a court of equity to abate the nuisance 

created by such unlawful use of structure. Whenever the Zoning Administrator has 

declared a structure to be not conforming with the provisions of this Ordinance, the 

owner or occupant shall, within seventy two (72) hours from the issuance of a notice 

from the Zoning Administrator to vacate such premises, accomplish such vacation of 

such structure or premises which shall not again be used or occupied until such structure 

or premised has been adapted to conform to the provisions of this Ordinance. 

 
1.6. Fees. Where work for which a permit is required by this Ordinance is started or 

proceeded with prior to obtaining a permit, the building permit fee shall be fifty (50) 

dollars or doubled, whichever is greater but the payment of such double fee shall not 

relieve any person from having to fully comply with the requirements of this Ordinance 

in the execution of the work or from any other penalties prescribed in this Ordinance. 

 
1.7. Penalties. Any person, firm, corporation, or other organization which violates any 

provision of this Ordinance shall be fined upon conviction not less than fifty (50) dollars 

nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and cost of court for each offense. Each day 

such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. 

 



 

11 

1.8. Remedies. In case any building or other structure is erected, constructed, 

reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or 

land is used in violation of this Ordinance, the Zoning Administrator of the City or any 

other appropriate authority or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be 

damaged or caused hardship by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may 

institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to stay or 

prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, 

conversion, maintenance or use, to correct or abate such violation or to prevent occupancy 

of such building, structure or land. 

 
1.9. City Not Subject to Ordinance. Any provision of the Ordinance to the contrary 

notwithstanding the City in exercising any governmental function, power, or authority, 

shall not be subject to the provisions of this Ordinance or in anywise limited thereby in 

the exercise of such governmental function, power of authority. 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Section 2.0. Zoning Amendments. 

 
A proposed change of the zoning district boundaries or of the regulations as they pertain 

to a piece of property may be initiated by the City or at the request of the owner or 

owners of the property to be rezoned or their authorized agents. 

 
2.1. When a rezoning request if made by a petition, the following procedure shall be 

followed: 

 
A. The applicant shall submit a complete zoning amendment application to the 

Planning Department, at least three (3) days prior to a regularly scheduled 

Planning and Zoning Commission meeting, containing as a minimum, the 

following information: 

 
1. A one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee to defray the cost of processing 

the application. 

 
2. A vicinity map, drawn to scale, showing the exact location of the 

subject property in relation to the vicinity where it is located. 

 
3. A site development plan, drawn to a scale no larger than one inch 

equals 50 feet, which shows the following: 

 
a. Property lines, right-of-way and easements 

b. Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed 

improvements 

c. Points of ingress and egress to the property 

d. Direction of storm water flow and method of handling same 

 
4. A written statement indicating: 



 

12 

 
a. Reason for the rezoning request 

b. Expected traffic volumes to be generated by the proposal, if 

applicable 

c. Availability of required utilities 

d. Relationship of the proposed rezoning to the land use 

pattern of the vicinity 

e. Legal description of proposed rezoning site 

 
5. Landscaping Plan, if applicable. 

 
B. Upon receipt of an application which complies with the requirements of 

Subsection 2.1, the Planning Clerk shall present the application to the 

Planning and Zoning Commission at their next regularly scheduled meeting. 

Upon receipt of said application by the Planning and Zoning Commission, 

the Commission shall schedule a public hearing on the application at their 

next regularly scheduled meeting. 

 
C. A minimum of fourteen (14) days prior to the Planning and Zoning 

Commission public hearing, the Planning Clerk shall mail notification to all 

owners of adjacent property as their names appear on the plats of the Tax 

Assessor. The notice shall state: 

 
1. Location of the rezoning request (by mailing address and legal 

description). 
 

2. The nature of the rezoning request (indicating the current zoning of 

the site and the proposed zoning classification). 

 
3. The time, date and location of the Planning and Zoning Commission 

hearing at which the rezoning request is to be considered, and stating 

further that all persons who desire shall have an opportunity of being 

heard in opposition to such ordinance. 

 
D. Upon receipt of a positive recommendation from the Planning and Zoning 

Commission, the City Clerk shall, in accord with the Code of Alabama, 

schedule and advertise the proposed amendment for a public hearing before 

the City Council.  Upon receipt   of  no  recommendation  or  a  negative 

recommendation  from  the  Planning  and  Zoning  Commission,  the  City 

Council  hearing  process  must  be  initiated  by  a  written  request  of  the 

applicant. 

 
E. When the City Council denies a rezoning request, the Planning and Zoning 

Commission shall not reconsider the same request for a period of six (6) 

months. Each time the City considers a zoning request, the one hundred 

dollar ($100.00) administrative fee must be paid. 

 
2.2. Initiation of Zoning Amendments by the City. The Planning and Zoning Commission 



 

13 

and/or the City Council, may, in accordance with the Code of Alabama, initiate public 

hearings for the consideration of any proposed amendment to the provisions of this 

Ordinance and/or the Zoning Map. 

 
Section 3.0 Board of Zoning Adjustment. 

 
The Board of Adjustments shall have only those powers specifically enumerated in 

Section 11-52-80, Code of Alabama, 1975; which are: 

 
A. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, 

requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official in 

the enforcement of this Article or of any ordinance adopted pursuant thereto; 

 
B. To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the ordinance upon 

which such board is required to pass under such ordinance; and 

 
C. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of 

the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owning to 

special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance 

will result in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of the ordinance 

shall be observed and substantial justice done. 

 
3.1. Administrative Appeal. Appeals to the Board of Adjustments concerning 

interpretation or administration of this Ordinance may be taken by any person aggrieved 

by any decision of the Building Official. Such appeals shall be taken within 30 days of the 

administrative decision which is the subject of the appeal. The Building Official shall 

forthwith transmit to the Board, all papers constituting the record upon which the action 

appealed from was taken. 

 
A.   The applicant shall submit a complete administrative appeal application 

along with a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee to defray the cost of processing to the 

Planning Clerk, at least fourteen (14) days prior to the Board of Zoning 

Adjustment meeting at which the appeal is to be considered. 

 
B. A minimum of seven (7) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment 

meeting at which the appeal is initially considered, the Planning Clerk shall 

mail notification to all owners of adjacent property as their names appear on 

the plats of the Tax Assessor. The notice shall state: 

1. Location of the property which is the subject of the appeal (by 

mailing address and legal description). 

2. The nature of the administrative appeal. 

3. The time, date and location of the Board of Adjustment meeting at 

which the administrative appeal is to be considered. 

 
C. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall schedule a hearing on the appeal at the 

first regularly scheduled meeting after compliance with notice provisions as 

set forth herein. 

 



 

14 

3.2. Special Exception Uses. 

 
Requests for special exception uses as stipulated within the zoning district regulations are 

permitted only after approval by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. When a Special 

Exception request is received by the City, the following procedure shall be followed: 

 
A. The applicant shall submit a complete Special Exception application to the 

Planning Clerk, at least eighteen (18) days prior to the Board of Zoning 

Adjustment meeting at which the request is to be considered, containing as a 

minimum, the following information: 

1. A non-refundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to defray 

the cost of processing the application. 

2. A vicinity map, drawn to scale, showing the exact location of the 

subject property in relation to the vicinity in which it is located. 

3. A site development plan, drawn to a scale no larger than one inch 

equals 50 feet, which shows the following: 

a.   Property lines, right-of-way and easements 

b.  Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed 

improvements, buildings and structures 

c.   Exterior lighting and signs 

d.  Buffers and fences 

e.   Outside storage areas 

f. Parking and loading areas 

g.   Points of ingress and egress to the property 

h.  Direction of storm water flow and method of handling same 

 
4. A written statement indicating: 

a. Expected traffic volumes to be generated by the proposal 

b. Availability of required utilities 

c. Relationship of the proposed special exception to the land 

use pattern of the vicinity 

d. Legal description of proposed special exception 

 
5. Landscaping Plan, if applicable. 

 
B. A minimum of fourteen (14) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment 

meeting at which the Special Exception request is initially considered, the 

Planning Clerk shall mail notification to all owners of adjacent property as 

their names appear on the plats of the Tax Assessor. The notice shall state: 

1. Location of the Special Exception request (by mailing address and 

legal description). 

2. The nature of the Special Exception request (indicating the current 

zoning of the site and the proposed use). 

3. The time, date and location of the Board of Adjustments meeting at 

which the Special Exception request is to be considered. 

 
C. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall schedule a hearing on the application 

at the first regularly scheduled meeting after compliance with notice 



 

15 

provisions as set forth herein. 

 
3.3. Variances. A variance to the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance must be 

approved by the Board of Adjustment at a public hearing as stipulated herein. 

 
A. The applicant shall submit a complete variance application to the Planning 

Clerk at least fourteen (14) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment 

meeting at which the request is to be considered containing as a minimum, 

the following information:  

1.  A fifty dollar ($50.00) fee to defray the cost of processing the 

application. 

2. A vicinity map, drawn to scale, showing the exact location of the 

subject property in relation to the vicinity in which it is located 

3. A site development plan, drawn to a scale no larger than one inch 

equals 50 feet, which shows the following: 

a. Property lines, right-of-way and easements 

b. The location, dimensions, and building setbacks for all 

existing and proposed buildings and structures on the site 

and adjacent to the site 

c. All dimensions of the building, structure and area which is 

the subject of the variance request 

4. Landscaping Plan, if applicable            

B. A minimum of seven (7) days prior to the Board of Zoning Adjustment 

meeting at which the variance is initially considered, the Planning Clerk 

shall mail notification to all owners of adjacent property as their names 

appear on the plats of the Tax Assessor. The notice shall state: 

 
1. Location of the variance (by mailing address and legal description). 

2. The nature of the variance 

3. The time, date and location of the Board of Adjustment meeting at 

which the variance is to be considered. 

 
C. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall schedule a hearing on the application 

at the first regularly scheduled meeting after compliance with notice 

provisions as set forth herein. 

 
3.4. Rules of Procedure. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules of procedure, which 

govern the application process, conduct of meetings and hearings, election of officers and 

other subjects deemed appropriate by the Board. 

 
3.5. Appeals From a Decision of the Board. Any party aggrieved by any final judgement 

or decision of the Board of Adjustment may within 15 days thereafter appeal therefrom to 

the Circuit Court by filing with such Board a written notice of appeal specifying the 

judgement or decision from which the appeal is taken. An appellant shall be required to 

pay a filing fee in Circuit Court at the time that a Notice of Appeal is filed with the Court. 

The Board shall cause a transcript of the proceedings in the case to be certified to the 

Court to which the appeal is taken and the case in such Court shall be tried de novo. Said 

transcript shall consist of the minutes of the proceeding, together with true and correct 



 

16 

copies of all exhibits, documents or other evidence presented for consideration by the 

Board. 

 
ARTICLE IV. DEFINITIONS 

 
For the purpose of this Ordinance certain terms used herein are herewith defined. When 

not consistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, word 

in the singular include the plural number and words in the plural include the singular 

number. The word “shall” is mandatory and not directory. 

 
Accessory Structure: A structure, which is normally incidental to, subordinate to and 

related exclusively to the principal use of the premises. 

 
Accessory Use: A use, which is normally incidental to, subordinate to and related 

exclusively to support of the principal use of the premises. 

 
Antenna: Any exterior apparatus designed to transmit and/or receive electromagnetic 

waves. 

Alley: A public thoroughfare or way, which affords a secondary means of access to 

abutting property. 

 
Alter and alteration: Any change or modification in construction or occupancy of a 

building or premises. 

 
Alternative Support Structure: A building or structure other than a tower, which is used 

to support an antenna(s), such as a steeple, power pole, water tank, sign, clock tower, 

light pole and other similar structures. 

 
Assisted Living Facility: A licensed facility in which room, board, meals, laundry, and 

assistance with personal care and other services are provided for not less than twenty-four 

hours in any week to a minimum of two ambulatory adults not related by blood or 

marriage to the owner and/or administrator. 

 
Basement: That portion of a building which is partly or wholly below grade but so 

located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the floor is greater than the 

vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling. A basement shall not be counted 

as a story for purposes of height restrictions. 

 
Bed and Breakfast: A single family, owner occupied dwelling, wherein a fee is charged 

to provide more than two bedrooms as overnight accommodations for guests and where 

meals may be served to overnight guests, but meals are not served to the non-resident 

general public. 

 
Block: All land fronting on one side of a street between the nearest intersecting streets, 

roads, railroad right-of-way and waterways, meeting or crossing the aforesaid street and 

bounding such land. 

 
Buffer: An area planted with live vegetation as required by this Ordinance, intended to 



 

17 

separate incompatible land uses and thereby mitigate the effects of the incompatibility. 

 
Building: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter, support 

or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels; and when supported by division walls from 

the ground up without ingress and egress provided between such divisions or suitable 

openings, each portion of such building so divided shall be deemed a separate building. 

 
Building Area: That portion of a lot or parcel covered by a building. 

 
Building Face or Wall: All window and wall area of a building in one plane or elevation. 

 
Building Height: The vertical distance from the average elevation of the proposed finished 

grade at the front of the building of the highest point on the roof for flat roofs, to the 

decked line for mansard roofs, and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, 

hip and gambrel roofs.  

 

Building Setback Line: Lines, which parallel property lines and determine the location of 

the building setback with respect to the street and other property lines. 

 
Building, Principal: A permanent building in which is conducted or is intended to be 

conducted the principle use of the lot on which said building is located. The principle 

building shall be a permanent building which has a roof supported by columns or walls, 

with walls constructed of wood, metal, glass, brick or masonry materials, which 

completely enclose the principle building area. A principle building shall not be a mobile 

building. 

 

Carport: A structure used to offer limited protection to vehicles, primarily cars and 

recreational vehicles. Carports typically have no sides but may have up to two, they can 

either be attached or free standing. 

Concealment Structure: A structure, which supports and completely conceals an 

antenna(s), such as steeple, sign, man-made tree, clock tower and similar applications. 

 
Cul-de-sac: A circular terminus of a dead-end street having a minimum right-of-way 

radius of fifty (50) feet. 

 
Day Care Center: Any childcare facility, which is not located in an owner occupied 

dwelling, where care is provided for children during the day for a fee, but where children 

are not accommodated overnight. The term does not include programs operated by a 

church when located on the same premises as the sanctuary, or programs operated within 

a public school. 

 
Day Care Home: Any childcare facility operated in an owner occupied dwelling, where 

care is provided for children during the day for a fee, but where children are not 

accommodated overnight. 

 
Drive-in Theater: A theater designed for the patron to view the performance while being 

seated in a vehicle. 



 

18 

 
Dwelling: Any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used exclusively for 

residential occupancy. 

 
Dwelling, Multiple: A building situated on one lot or parcel which contains more than 

two dwelling units. 

 
Dwelling, Single Family: A dwelling unit, which is not attached to any other dwelling by 

any means. 

 
Dwelling, Two Family: A building situated on one lot or parcel, which contains two 

dwelling units. 

 
Dwelling Unit: One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for occupancy as 

separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities provided within the 

dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single family maintaining a household. 

 

Dwelling, Townhouse: Two (2) or more dwelling units, attached by at least twenty (20) 

feet of continuous common side wall(s), each unit of which is located on an individual lot 

and designed to be occupied and owned by one (1) family. 

 
Erect: Construct, including build, reconstruction, alternation, moved upon or any similar 

physical operations on the premises. Excavation, earthwork, fill, drainage work, utilities 

installations and other work as it relates to the construction or use of a building or 

structure shall be considered within the meaning of erect. 

 
Family: One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single 

housekeeping unit, all but two (2) of whom are related to each other by birth, adoption or 

marriage. 

 
Notwithstanding the definition in the preceding paragraph, a family shall be deemed to 

include up to three (3) unrelated persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single, 

non-profit housekeeping unit, if any one or more of said three (3) unrelated occupants is 

handicapped as defined in Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 as amended by the 

“Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988” and the “Alabama Fair Housing Law”, Code of 

Alabama 24-8-1, et seq. such unrelated individual(s) shall have the right to occupy a 

dwelling unit in the same manner and to the same extent as any family unit as defined in 

the first paragraph of this definition. 

 
Fence: A structure intended for a barrier or enclosure. 

 
First Floor: The term “first floor” shall mean the lowest floor surface of that portion of a 

structure defined as a story 

 
Floor Area: The gross floor area, including basement, of any structure. 

 
Gasoline Service Station: Any building, structure or land at which the sale of combustible 

and flammable fuels is the principle use. 



 

19 

 
Group Home: A dwelling, which is occupied by persons who collectively do not comply 

the definition of family. 

 
Home Occupation: A use, conducted entirely within an enclosed, detached, single family 

residential dwelling, which occupies less than 25 percent of the gross floor area of the 

dwelling, employs only the inhabitants of the dwelling, is clearly incidental and secondary 

to residential occupancy and does not change the character of the dwelling. 

 
Hospital: A public or proprietary institution providing medical diagnosis, treatment, or 

other care of human ailments, operating under license by the Alabama State Health 

Department, and which, unless otherwise specified, shall be deemed to include 

institutions primarily for treatment of contagious diseases and the insane or feeble 

minded but not including nursing homes. 

 

Hotel: A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the general public, where 

the rooms are accessed from the interior of the building, and providing additional services 

such as dining, meeting rooms and recreation facilities. 

 
Independent Living Facility: Multi-family dwellings, restricted to occupancy by persons 

62 years and older, which may provide common facilities and services, but which are not 

defined as an Assisted Living Facility. 

 
Industrial Park: A tract of industrial land subdivided into at least two (2) parcels each of 

which have frontage on a public street. 

 
Inn: An establishment which is located in a building which was originally designed and 

used as a single family dwelling, wherein a fee is charged to provide overnight 

accommodations for guests. 

 
Junk: Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material or debris, whether or not stored or used in 

conjunction with dismantling, processing, salvage, storage, baling, disposal or other use 

or disposition; including but not limited to: vehicles, tires, vehicle parts, equipment, 

paper, rags, metal, glass, building materials, household appliances, brush, wood and 

lumber. 

 
Junk Yard: Any area, lot, land, parcel, building or structure, or portion thereof, used for 

the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale or abandonment of junk. 

 
Land Area: Property, which is not water surface area. 

 
Loading Space: A space having a minimum dimension of twelve by thirty-five (12x35) 

feet and a vertical clearance of at least fourteen (14) feet within the main building or on 

the same lot, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks. 

 
Lot: A parcel of land intended for transfer of ownership or for building development, 

which shall be comprised of land area or a combination of land area and water surface 

area which complies with the area and dimensional regulations of the zoning district in 



 

20 

which it is located. Each lot shall be comprised of land area in an amount equal to or 

greater that the minimum lot area required in the zoning district in which it is located. 

Said land area shall be contiguous and have principle frontage upon a public street. 

 
Lot-corner: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection. 

 
Lot Line: The lines bounding a lot as defined herein. 

 
Lot Line-front: In the case of a lot line abutting upon one street, the front line is the line 

separating such lot from such a street. On corner lots and through lots, the front lot line 

shall be considered as parallel to the streets upon which the lot is located. 

 

Lot Line-rear: The rear lot line is that opposite the front line, except in the case of a 

through lot. In case of a lot terminating at a point at the rear of the lot, or having a rear lot 

line less than ten (10) feet long, the rear lot line shall be considered a line parallel to the 

front lot line having a length not less than ten (10) feet long. 

 
Lot Line-side: Any lot line other than front lot line or rear lot line. 

 
Lot-of-record: A legally platted lot shown on the records in the Office of the Judge of 

Probate. 

 
Lot-through: A lot which abuts two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets. 

 
Lot Width: The width of the lot measured at the minimum required building setback line. 

 
Manufactured Home: A structure defined by and constructed in accordance with the 

National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as 

amended, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. The definition at the date of adoption of this 

Ordinance is as follows: 

 
A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is eight 

(8) body feet or more in width and forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected 

on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a 

permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent 

foundation, when connected with required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, 

air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall 

include any structure which meets all of the requirements and with respect to which the 

manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary and complies with 

the standards established under this title. 

 
Mobile Building: A building used for non- residential purposes, which is transportable in 

one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be occupied and used 

with or without a permanent foundation. 

 
Mobile Home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a 

permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent 

foundation, and which does not meet the standards required of a Manufactured Home 



 

21 

herein. 

 
Mobile Home or Manufactured Home Park: A lot or parcel which contains more than one 

mobile home or manufactured home used as living quarters, or a lot or parcel containing 

more than one space designed or intended for parking of mobile homes or manufactured 

homes, to be used as living quarters. 

 
Modular Home: A single-family dwelling, factory fabricated and transportable as a 

building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent 

foundation into a permanent structure to be used for residential purposes and which bears 

a seal of compliance with the regulations of the Alabama Manufactured Housing 

Commission. 

 
Motel: A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the general public where 

most of the rooms have separate and direct access to the outside, and which may provide 

additional services such as dining, meeting rooms and recreation. 

 
Nonconforming Use: The use of any building, structure or land which was lawful at the 

time of the passage of this Ordinance, or amendment thereto but which use does not 

conform, after the passage of this Ordinance or amendment thereto, with the use 

regulations of the district in which it is located. 

 
Nursing Home: A licensed facility providing inpatient care for convalescents or other 

persons not acutely ill and not in need of acute general hospital care, but do require 

skilled nursing care. 

 
Office: Space or rooms for professional, administrative, clerical and similar uses. 

 
Parking Area: Space, which is surfaced by either bituminous pavement or concrete, used 

or intended to be used exclusively for the off-street parking of vehicles. 

 
Parking Space: An area surfaced by either bituminous pavement or concrete, which are at 

least nine (9) feet wide and twenty (20) feet long. 

 
Premises: A lot or parcel, together with all buildings and structures existing thereon; 

except in the case of leased space in a multiple tenant building, the premises shall be the 

subject leased space. 

 
Public Utility: Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or board, duly 

authorized by the Alabama Public Service Commission to provide electricity, gas, steam, 

telephone, telegraph, transportation, water or sewer service to the general public. 

 
Restaurant: An establishment where food is cooked, patrons dine on or off the premises 

and where there is no drive-up or walk-up window service or service to customers in their 

vehicles. 

 
Restaurant, Drive-up: An establishment where food is cooked or prepared, and where 

there is drive-up or walk-up window service, or service to customers in their vehicles. 



 

22 

 
Roofline: The top edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever forms the top line 

of the building silhouette. 

 
Self-Service Storage, Limited Access: A self-service storage facility with limited access 

points from the exterior of the building to interior halls that provide the only access to 

individual storage units. 

 

Self-Service Storage, Multi-Access: A self- service storage facility with access points 

from the exterior of the building to individual storage units. 

 
Shopping Center: Two (2) or more retail or service establishments located in one (1) 

building or a group of architecturally unified buildings; said buildings being under one 

(1) ownership or management, with selected tenants, and having an integrated parking 

area. 

 
Story: That part of a building, except a mezzanine as defined herein, included between 

the surface of one floor and the surface of the next floor, or if there is no floor above, 

then the ceiling next above. A story thus defined shall not be counted as a story when 

more than fifty (50) percent, by cubic content, is below the height level of the adjourning 

ground. 

 
Story-Half: A half story is a story situated within a sloping roof, the floor area of which, 

at a height of five (5) feet above the floor, does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the floor 

area in the story directly below it and the height above at least two hundred (200) square 

feet of floor space its seven (7) feet six (6) inches. A half story containing independent 

apartment or living quarters shall be counted as a full story. 

 
Street: A public thoroughfare which affords a principal means of access to abutting 

property and which has been accepted by the City as a public street. 

 
Structure: Any construction or production of a piece of work artificially built up or 

composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. 

 
Structure, Height: Except for buildings, the height of a structure shall be measured from 

the average ground elevation at the bottom of the structure to the highest point of the 

structure. 

 
Telecommunications Facility: A facility owned or operated by a public utility or a 

business that transmits and/or received electromagnetic waves. It included antennas, 

microwave dishes, horns and other types of equipment for the transmission or receipt of 

such signals, telecommunications towers or alternative supporting structures, equipment, 

buildings, cabinets, parking area and all other accessory structures and uses. 

 
Tourist Home: A single family, owner occupied dwelling, wherein a fee is charged to 

provide not more than two bedrooms as overnight accommodations for gusts and where 

meals may be served to overnight guests, but meals are not served to the non-resident 

general public. 



 

23 

 
Tower: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of 

supporting one or more antenna, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or 

monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave 

towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers and similar towers. 

 

Use: A use is the purpose for which land or buildings and structures thereon are designed, 

arranged or intended to be used, occupied or maintained. 

 
Water Surface Area: Property within lakes, ponds, rivers and year-round streams. Water 

surface area shall not include property within storm drainage structures, drainage ways 

which periodically contain water or swimming pools and other structures which contain 

water. 

 
Wholesale Establishment: Any establishment which exclusively sells goods in large 

quantities, as for resale by a retailer. 

 
Yard: An open space that lies between the principal or accessory building(s) and the 

nearest lot line. Such yard is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward 

except as may be specifically provided in this Ordinance. 

 
Yard-Front: A yard, or yards in the case of a corner lot or through lot, extending across 

the full width or depth of the lot between the front of the principle building and the 

closest lot line; and between the principle building and any public street right-of-way. 

 
Yard-Rear: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear lot line and 

the principle building. 

 
Yard-Side: A yard between the side of the lot and the nearest line of the principle building 

and extending from the front yard to the rear yard, or, in the absence of either of such 

yards, to the front or rear lot line, as the case may be, except that on a corner lot the side 

yard adjacent to a street shall extend the full depth of the lot. 
 

 
 

ARTICLE V. GENERAL REGULATIONS 

Section 1.0. General Use Requirements. 

The following general regulations pertain to the administration, enforcement of and 

compliance with this Ordinance. 

 
1.1. Application of this Ordinance. No structure shall be constructed, erected, placed or 

maintained and no land use commenced or continued within the City except as specially 

or by necessary implication authorized by this Ordinance. In addition, no excavation for 

foundations, nor any erection, or structural alteration of any structure shall be undertaken 

prior to appropriate permits having been approved and issued by the Zoning 

Administrator. 

 



 

24 

1.2. Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance. 

 
A. No land may be used except for a use permitted in the district in which it is 

located. 
 

B. No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, 

moved or structurally altered, nor shall any building be used except for a 

use permitted in the district in which the building is located. 

 
C. No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed 

or structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations and 

height limit if the district in which the building is located. 

 
D. The minimum building lines, lot area, parking spaces, buffers and other 

criteria required by this Ordinance for each and every building existing at 

the time of the passage of this Ordinance or for any building hereafter 

erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as a required building, 

parking or open space for any other building, nor shall any lot area be 

reduced below the requirements of this Ordinance. 

 
E. Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on 

one lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one 

principal building and one principal use on one lot; except in the case of 

multi-family dwellings, self-storage facilities, churches, schools and similar 

institutional campuses. Accessory structures shall not include living quarters, 

except for resident managers at self-storage facilities. 

 
F. No accessory structure shall be constructed or moved upon a lot more than 

thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of construction of the principal 

building. 

 
G. Building materials or temporary structures for construction purposes shall 

not be placed or stored on any lot or parcel before appropriate building 

permits have been approved and issued by the Zoning Administrator. 

 
1.3. Joint Occupancy. No structure shall be erected, structurally altered for, or used as a 

single-family or two-family dwelling simultaneously with any other use. 

 
1.4. Public Utilities. Public utility structures including: poles, wires, cross arms, 

transformers attached to poles, guy wires, insulators, conduits and other facilities 

necessary for the transmission or distribution of electric power or to provide telephone or 

telegraph service, and pipelines, vents, valves, hydrants, regulators, meters and other 

facilities necessary for the transmission or distribution of gas, oil, water or other utilities, 

may be constructed, erected, repaired, maintained or replaced in any zoning district. This 

is not construed to include buildings, electric sub-stations nor telecommunications 

facilities as defined by this Ordinance. 

 
Section 2.0. Nonconforming uses of land and buildings. 



 

25 

Within the districts established by this Ordinance or amendments that may later be 

adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and characteristics of use 

which were lawful before the Ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be 

prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this Ordinance or future amendment. 

It is the intent of this Ordinance to permit these non-conformities to continue until they 

are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this Ordinance 

that non-conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as 

grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. 

 
2.1. Continuance. A lawful non-conforming use existing at the effective date of the 

Ordinance may be continued, except as hereafter provided, although such use does not 

conform to the provisions of this Ordinance. 

 
2.2. Restoration to safe condition. Nothing in the Ordinance shall prevent the restoration 

of any building or structure to a safe or sanitary condition when required by the proper 

authorities. 

 
2.3. Restoration after damages. A non-conforming building or structure which has been 

damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than fifty (50) percent of its current 

replacement value at the time of such damage shall not be rebuilt or restored except in 

conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. If a non-conforming building is 

damaged less than fifty (50) percent of its current replacement value it may be rebuilt or 

restored and used as before the damage, provided that such rebuilding or restoring is 

completed within twelve (12) months of the date of such damage. 

 
2.4. Abandonment. A non-conforming use, which has been discontinued for a continuous 

period of one (1) year shall not be re-established and any future use shall be in 

conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. 

 
2.5. Change of use. A non-conforming use shall not be changed to another non- 

conforming use. A non-conforming use, which is changed to a conforming use shall not 

be permitted to revert to a non-conforming use. 

 
2.6. Structures conforming to district regulations but not other regulations. A structure or 

building conforming to the use regulations of a district, but not conforming to other 

provisions of this Ordinance, may be enlarged or altered, provided, that such enlargement 

or alteration conforms to the provisions of this Ordinance. 

 
2.7. Non-conforming Mobile & Manufactured Homes. When a non-conforming mobile 

home or manufactured home is moved from its site, damaged by fire or other causes to 

the extent of more than 50 (50) percent of its current replacement value at the time of 

such damage, use of the subject property shall conform in all respects to the provisions of 

this Ordinance. When a non-conforming mobile home or manufactured home is vacant 

for three (3) consecutive months, or nine (9) months in any two (2) year period, it shall be 

removed from the premises. 



 

26 

Section 3.0 Annexed Property. 

Prior to issuance of a building permit for property which was annexed into the City of 

Valley, the property shall be zoned in accordance with Article III, Section 2.1 of this 

Ordinance. 

 
Section 4.0. Abandoned right-of-way. 

 
Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated or abandoned by official action 

of the City of Valley, the zoning district adjourning each side of such street, alley or 

public way shall be automatically extended to the center of same and all area included 

therein shall then be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended district. 

 
Section 5.0 Access to Public Streets  

    

 

               A.       A point of access, i.e., a drive or other opening for vehicles onto a street,  

                 shall not exceed  thirty  (30)  feet  in  width,  but  if  the  street  is  a  major   

                      street and freeways, or arterial street, the width shall not exceed fifty (50)  

                        feet. 
 
           B.      There shall be no more than two points of access to any one public street on  

                     a lot of any width, unless required by the Board of Adjustments to provide  

                       adequate access to  lots  with  more  than  four  hundred  (400)  feet  of   

                     continuous street frontage. Lots less than one hundred (100) feet in width 

                       shall have no more than one access to any one public street.   

 

            C.      No point of access shall be allowed within fifty (50) feet of the right-of-  

                      way of any public street intersection. However, a lesser distance may be   

                recommended for approval to the Board of Adjustments by the Zoning  

                        Administrator, where conditions at the intersection or the constraints of the  

                        property may so warrant, and where such adjustment shall not compromise  

                       traffic safety or contribute to traffic congestion. 
 
        D.     The area existing between the street and an interior parking space or  

                       driveway parallel to the street shall have a curb at least six (6) inches in  

                       height and six (6) inches in width separating the parking area and drive from  

                       the public right-of- way, to prevent encroachment of vehicles onto the right- 

                         of-way area.   
 
        E.     No curbs on city streets or rights–of-way shall be cut or altered without   

                 written approval of the Zoning Administrator. All points of access to a public  

                     street shall require written approval of the Zoning Administrator. 

 

 

 
Section 6.0. Area modification for lots of record. 

 
Where a lot of record at the time of the effective date of this Ordinance has less area or 



 

27 

less width than herein required for the district in which it is located, said lot may 

nonetheless be used as a building site upon approval by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. 

When two or more nonconforming lots exist together, with contiguous frontage and 

under single ownership, said lots shall be re surveyed to conform as closely as possible to 

the provisions of this Ordinance. 

 
 

Section 7.0. General yard and building setback modifications. 

 See Exhibit “A” pg. 111- Area of Modification for Typical Lots 
 

A. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky unobstructed by any 

structure or part thereof and unoccupied for storage, servicing or similar 

uses except as provided herein. 

 
B. More than one multiple dwelling or institutional building may be located 

upon a lot or tract, but such buildings shall not encroach upon the front, side 

and rear yards required by the district regulations. 

 
C. Where a building is to be erected on a lot or parcel of land that is within one 

hundred (100) feet of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front 

yard shall be a line drawn between the closest front corners of the adjacent 

buildings. 

 
D. Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is within one 

hundred (100) feet of an existing building on one side only, such building 

may be erected as close to the street as the existing adjacent building. 

 
E. Through lots shall provide the required front yard on both sides. 

F. Corner lots shall provide a front yard one each street side. 

Section 8.0. Height modifications. 

 
Chimneys, fire towers, steeples, and public utility water storage tanks, where permitted, 

may be erected to any height not in conflict with existing or hereafter adopted ordinances 

of the City of Valley. 

 
Section 9.0. Eaves, porches, decks and accessory structures. 

 
A. Sills or ornamental features of a structure shall not project more than six (6) 

inches into any yard. 

 
B. Cornices or eaves shall not project more than twenty-four (24) inches into 

any required yard. 

 
C. In all residential districts, uncovered patios, terraces, walkways, decks and 

porches, which do not extend more than three (3) feet above grade, may 

project into a required yard, provided such structures shall not be located 



 

28 

closer than twenty (20) feet from the rear property line nor six (6) feet from 

either side property line. 

 
D.    In all residential districts, uncovered balconies, decks or fire escapes, which 

extend more than three (3) feet above grade, may project into a required rear 

or side yard provided such structures shall not be located closer than twenty 

(20) feet from the rear property line nor six (6) feet from either side property 

line. 

 

E. Accessory buildings and structures are permitted only in a rear yard and 

shall have a cumulative gross floor area which is less than 50% of the 

dwelling, excluding pools, patios and decks. Minimum building setback 

for accessory buildings and structures shall be five (5) feet from property 

lines and accessory buildings shall be a minimum of (10) feet from the 

dwelling. Accessory structures shall not be taller than the height of the 

primary structure. 

 

F.     Detached Carports shall be permitted in the side or rear yard, subject to 

setbacks.  

 

G.     Prohibited accessory structures: portable carports made from textile/ vinyl, 

shipping containers, tractor trailers, or structures not intended for 

residential purposes. 

 
 

 

ARTICLE VI. ZONING DISTRICTS   

See Exhibit “B” pg. 112 – Quick Guide to Residential Zoning Districts 

Section 1.0. FAR Forestry-Agricultural-Recreation District   

1.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the FAR, Forestry- 

Agricultural-Recreation District. 

 
1.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of the Forestry-Agricultural-Recreation District is to 

provide for the preservation of prime agricultural / forestry lands; to provide for the 

preservation of natural and scenic areas needed for outdoor recreation, open space, 

water aquifer recharge, essential drainage areas, and to provide for protection of such 

lands from premature or incompatible development. 

 
1.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
General and specialized farming, forestry, and agricultural uses, except commercial 



 

29 

animal feed lots and poultry farms 

 
Roadside stands for the sale of produce 

 
Conservation areas and structures for the development, protection, preservation, and 

conservation of open space, water sheds, water, soil, forest and wildlife resources. 

 
Bed and Breakfast 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Single family dwellings and manufactured homes 

Tourist home 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

permitted uses 

 
1.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Group home 

Home Occupation 

Inn 

Plant nurseries and greenhouses 

Resorts, campgrounds, riding academies and stables 

Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII 
 

Utility uses as: Electric cub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping stations 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned 

special exception uses 

 
1.5. Prohibited Uses: Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses 

which are not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use 

 
1.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the 

following requirements: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

15,000 square feet 
 

Minimum Lot Width 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

 
 

200 feet 

100 feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 



 

30 

 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

45 feet 

40 feet 

20 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- 

way) 
 

 
 

1.7. Requirements for Single Family Dwellings, and Manufactured Homes: 

 
A. A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a 

length not to exceed four times its width, with the length measured 

along the longest axis and the width measured at the narrowest part 

of the other axis, with the minimum width not less than twenty-four 

(24) feet. This measurement shall only include the enclosed living 

area and shall not include garages, carports, decks or storage areas. 

 
B. All dwellings shall have a permanent masonry underpinned 

foundation which extends from the ground to the bottom of the 

exterior wall and surrounds the entire dwelling, the underpinned 

foundation being either brick, or masonry painted materials painted 

the same color as the building. 

C. Each manufactured home shall be blocked and anchored in compliance with 

applicable law, rule or regulation. 

 
D. Axles, trailer tongues, wheels, tires, taillights and license plates shall be 

removed or hidden from view. 

 
E. All dwellings shall have permanent steps, porches, or decks on all outside 

doorways, the supports for which shall be permanently anchored in the 

ground. 

 
F. All dwellings shall have at least a 3:12 roof pitch and the roof shall have a 

surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition shingles, fiberglass or metal 

tiles. 

 
G. The applicant shall submit proof that there are no restrictive covenants 

preventing the placement of a manufactured home on the subject property. 

 
H. Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the 

Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures 

Code. 

 
1.8. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, shall provide 

a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines 

which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a 

buffer is required, a six foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required 

buffer along said alley. 



 

31 

 
1.9. Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 2.0. R-R Rural Residential District 

 
2.1 Generally: The regulations set forth in the Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-R Rural 

Residential District. 

 
2.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of the Rural Residential District is to provide for the 

preservation of prime lands suitable for residential development and act as a buffer 

between urban and rural development. 

 
2.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
General and specialized agriculture, farming and forestry uses except feed lots and 

poultry productions. 
 

Roadside stands for the sale of produce grown on the property and sold by the owner of 

the property. 

 
Conservation areas and structures built for the conservation, preservation and protection 

of open space, water, sheds, soils, forests and wildlife resources. 

 
Single-family dwellings 

 
Bed and Breakfast 

Tourist Home 

 
Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Accessory structures for uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

permitted uses. 

 
2.4. Special Exception Uses 

 
Group home             

Home Occupation                    

Inn 

Plant nurseries and greenhouses 

Resorts, campgrounds, riding academies and stables 

Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping 

stations. 



 

32 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned special 

exception uses 

 
2.5. Prohibited Uses: 

   
  Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes 

Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed 

as a permitted or special exception use 

 
2.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following 

requirements: 

 
A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a length not to exceed 

four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and the width 

measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum width not less than 

twenty-four (24) feet. This measurement shall only include the enclosed living 

area and shall not include garages, carports, decks or storage areas. 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

One acre 
 

Minimum Lot Width 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

 
 

200 feet 

100 feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

45 feet 

40 feet 

20 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- 

way) 
 

 
 

2.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, 

shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and 

side property lines which abut an FAR or residential district. 

 
2.8. Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations,      

        Article IX  

B. Buffers and Landscaping Regulations, Article X 

 



 

33 

Section 3.0. R-1 Low Density Residential District 

 
3.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in 

this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-1 

Low Density Residential District 

 
3.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide a quality living 

environment through the provision of land for low density residential uses 

consisting of single-family dwellings and accessory uses. 

 
3.3 Permitted Uses: 

 
Single-family dwellings 

 
Municipal fire, police and emergency medical stations 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the 

aforementioned permitted uses. 
 

3.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Bed and Breakfast 

Group Home 

Home Occupation 

Tourist Home 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground 

pumping stations 

 
Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

special exception uses. 

 
3.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes 

Multi-family dwellings; two-family dwellings and townhouses 

 
Commercial, institution and industrial uses which are specifically listed as a 

permitted or special exception use 

 
3.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the 

following requirements: 

 
A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have e length not to 



 

34 

exceed four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and 

the width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum 

width not less than twenty four (24) feet. This measurement shall only include 

the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, carports, decks or storage 

area. 
 
 
 
 

 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

15,000 square feet 
 

Minimum Lot Width 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

 
 

100 feet 

100 feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

35 feet 

40 feet 

10 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- 

way) 

 
3.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, 

shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and 

side property 

lines which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties 

where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for 

the required buffer along said alley. 

 
3.8. Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

 B. Buffer and Landscaping Regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 4.0 R-2 Medium Density Residential District 

 
4.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth 

elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the 

regulations in the R-2 Medium Density residential District. 

 
4.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide a quality living 

environment through the provision of land for medium density residential and 

accessory uses. 

 
4.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Single-family dwellings 



 

35 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the 

aforementioned permitted uses. 

 
4.4 Special Exception Uses: 

 
Bed and Breakfast 

Group Home 

Home Occupation 

Tourist Home 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground 

pumping stations 
 

Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

special exception uses. 

 
4.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes 

Duplexes and townhouses 

Multi-family Dwellings 

 
Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not 

specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use 

 
4.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a length not to 

exceed four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and 

the width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum 

width not less than twenty four (24) feet. This measurement shall only include 

the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, carports, decks and 

storage areas. 
 

 
 

 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

12,000 square feet 
 

Minimum Lot Width 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

 
 

90 feet 

75 feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 



 

36 

 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

35 feet 

35 feet 

10 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- 

way) 
 

Maximum Building Area of Lot 
 

35 Percent 
 

 
 

4.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, 

shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side 

property lines which abut a FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates 

properties where 

a buffer is required, a six (6) foot privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer 

along said alley. 
 

 
 

4.8. Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscaping Regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 5.0 R-3 Medium Density Residential District 

 
5.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-3 Medium 

Density Residential District. 

 
5.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to promote a quality living 

environment through the provision of land for medium density residential and accessory 

uses. 

 
5.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Single-family dwellings 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

permitted uses. 

 
5.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Bed and Breakfast 

Group Homes 

Home Occupations 

Tourist Homes 

 



 

37 

Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping 

stations 

 
Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special 

exception uses: 

 
5.5 Prohibited Uses: 

 
Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes 

Duplexes and Townhouses 

Multi-family dwellings 

 
Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not 

specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use 

 
5.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a length not to 

exceed four times its width, with the length measured along the longest axis and 

the width measured at the narrowest part of the other axis, with the minimum 

width not less than twenty four (24) feet. This measurement shall only include 

the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, carports, decks or storage 

areas. 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

9,000 square feet 
 

Minimum Lot Width 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

 
 

75 feet 

60 feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

30 feet 

35 feet 

8 feet, and 35 feet from a public street right-

of-way 
 

Maximum Building Area of Lot 
 

35 Percent 

 
5.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, except home occupations, 

shall provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and 

side property 

lines which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates properties 



 

38 

where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for 

the required buffer along said alley. 

 
5.8 Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, 

Article IX. B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, 

Article X. 

 
Section 6.0 R-4 Medium Density Residential District 

 
6.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth 

elsewhere in this Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the 

regulations in the R-4 Medium Density Residential District. 
 

 

6.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to promote a quality living 

environment through the provision of land for a variety of medium density housing 

including single family dwellings, manufactured homes and two-family dwellings 

 
6.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Single Family Dwellings 

Manufactured Homes 

Two-family Dwellings (Duplexes) 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

permitted uses. 

 
6.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Group Homes 

Home Occupation 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping 

stations 

 
Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special 

exception uses. 

 
6.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
Mobile Homes 

Multi-family dwellings 

Townhouses 



 

39 

 
Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed 

as a permitted or special exception use 
 
6.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations 

 
 

 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 

Single Family Dwelling 

Manufactured Dwelling 

12,000 square feet 

12,000 square feet 

Two Family Dwelling 15,000 square feet 
 

Minimum Lot Width 

Single Family Dwelling 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

Manufactured Home 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

Two-Family Dwelling 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

 
 

 
90 feet 

75 feet 

 
90 feet 

75 feet 

 
100 feet 

85 feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

35 feet 

40 feet 

10 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- 

way) 
 

Maximum Building Area of Lot 
 

35 Percent 



 

40 

 

 
6.7. Buffer Regulations. Special exception uses, except home occupations, shall 

provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side 

property lines which abut a FAR, RR, PRD, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 or R-5 district. 

Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high 

privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 

 
6.8. Supplemental Requirements for Single Family Dwellings, Two-Family Dwellings and 

Manufactured Homes 

 
A. A dwelling, as constructed, erected or installed on site, shall have a 

length no to exceed four times its width, with the length measured 

along the longest axis and the width measured at the narrowest part 

of the other axis, with the minimum width less than 24 feet. This 

measurement shall only  
include the enclosed living area and shall not include garages, 

carports, decks and storage areas, 

 
B. All dwellings shall have a permanent masonry underpinned 

foundation which extends from the ground to the bottom of the 

exterior wall and surrounds the entire dwelling, the underpinned 

foundation being either brick, masonry painted materials painted 

the same color as the building. 

 
C. Each manufactured home shall be blocked and anchored in 

compliance with applicable law, rule or regulation. 
 
 

D. Axles, trailer tongues, wheels, tires, taillights and license plates shall be 

removed or hidden from view. 

 
E.  All dwellings shall have permanent steps, porches or decks on all outside 

doorways, the supports for which shall be permanently anchored in the 

ground. 

 
F. All dwellings shall have at least a 3:12 roof pitch and the roof shall have a 

surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition shingles, fiberglass or metal 

tiles. 

 
G. The applicant shall submit proof that there are no restrictive covenants 

preventing the placement of a manufactured home on the subject property. 

 
H. Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the 

Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures 

Code. 

 
 

 



 

41 

6.9. Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 7.0 R-5 Medium Density Residential District 

 
7.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-5 Medium 

Density Residential district. 

 
7.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to promote a quality living 

environment through the provision of land for a variety of medium density housing 

including single family dwellings, manufactured homes and two-family dwellings. 

 
7.3. Permitted Uses 

 
Single Family Dwellings 

Manufactured Homes 

Two-Family Dwellings (Duplexes) 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

permitted uses. 

 
7.4. Special Exception Uses: 

Group Home 

Home Occupation 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground 

pumping stations. 

 
Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

special exception uses. 

 
7.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
Mobile Homes 

Multi-Family Dwellings 

Townhouse Dwellings 

 
Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not 

specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use    

 

 

 



 

42 

7.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations  

 

 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 

Single Family Dwelling 

Manufactured Dwelling 

Two Family Dwelling 

 
 

12,000 square feet 

12,000 square feet 

15,000 square feet 
 

Minimum Lot Width 

Single Family Dwelling 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

Manufactured Home 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

Two-Family Dwelling 

Corner lot 

Interior lot 

 
 

 
90 feet 

75 feet 

 
90 feet 

75 feet 

 
100 feet 

85 feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

35 feet 

40 feet 

10 feet, (35 feet from a public street right-of- 

way) 

Maximum Building Area of Lot 35 Percent 
 

 

 

7.7. Buffer Regulations. Special exception uses, except home occupations, shall provide a 

buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which 

abut as FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, R-2 R-3 R-4 or R-5 district. Where an alley separates 

properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted 

for the required buffer along said alley. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

43 

 

7.8. Supplemental Requirements for Single Family Dwellings, Two-Family Dwellings and 

Manufactured Homes: 

 
A. All dwellings shall have a permanent masonry underpinned foundation 

which extends from the ground to the bottom of the exterior wall and 

surrounds the entire dwelling, the underpinned foundation being either 

brick, or masonry painted materials painted the same color as the building. 

 
B. Each manufactured home shall be blocked and anchored in compliance with 

applicable law, rule or regulations. 

 
C. Axles, trailer tongues, wheels, tires, taillights and license plates shall be 

removed or hidden from view. 

 
D. All dwellings shall have permanent steps, porches or decks on all outside 

doorways, the supports for which shall be permanently anchored in the 

ground. 

 
E.     All dwellings shall have at least 3:12 roof pitch and the roof shall have a 

surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition shingles, fiberglass or metal 

tiles. 

 
F. The applicant shall submit proof that there are no restrictive covenants 

preventing the placement of a manufactured home on the subject property. 

 
G. Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the 

Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures 

Code. 

 
7.9. Additional regulations. 

 
A. Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. 

B.  Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 



 

44 

Section 8.0 R-6 High Density Residential district 

 
8.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the R-6 High Density 

Residential District. 

 
8.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide affordable housing 

opportunities by permitting attached dwellings. 

 
8.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Multi-family dwellings, including condominiums and cooperatives 

Assisted living facilities 

Townhouses 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

permitted uses. 

 
8.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping 

Stations  

 

Qualifying Home Occupation 

 
Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special 

exception uses. 

 
8.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
Single-family dwellings 

Two family dwellings 

Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes 

 
Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed 

as a permitted or special exception use 

 
8.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 



 

45 

Dwellings and other structures shall be located so as to comply with the following 

requirements. 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Maximum Density 

 
Townhouses 

 
Multi-Family Dwellings 

 
 

 
 15 units per acre 

 
 15 units per acre 

 

Minimum Lot Width 

 
Townhouse 

 
Multi-Family Dwelling 

 
 

 
20 feet 

 
100 feet 

 

Maximum Building Height 
 

50 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

30 feet 

35 feet 

20 feet; 30 feet from a public street right-of- 

way 
 

Maximum Building Area of Lot for Multi- 

Family Dwellings 

 
 

40 Percent 

 
8.7. Buffer Regulations. Multi-family dwellings and special exception uses, shall provide a 

buffer which is at least a twenty (20) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which 

abut an FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, or R-5 district. Townhouse dwellings shall 

provide a buffer which is at least a twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines 

which abut said districts. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a 

six foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 

 
8.8. Supplemental Regulations for Townhouses: 

 
A. Each townhouse shall be located on a separate lot. 

 
B. No more than eight (8) nor fewer than three (3) continuous townhouses shall 

be built in a row. 

 
C. All dwellings shall have a permanent masonry underpinned foundation 

which extends from the ground to the bottom of the exterior wall and 



 

46 

surrounds the entire dwelling, the underpinned foundation being either 

brick, or masonry painted materials painted the same color as the building. 

 
D. Minimum side yard requirements shall only apply to townhouse groupings, 

not each townhouse. 

 
E. All townhouses shall be connected to the public sanitary sewer system. 

F.  A continuous group of dwellings shall not exceed 240 feet in length. 

8.9. Additional Regulations: 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X 
 

 
 

Section 9.0. MHR Manufactured Home Subdivision District 

 
9.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in the section, are the regulations in the MHR Manufactured 

Home Subdivision District. 

 
9.2. Statement of Intent. It is the intent of this district to allow for the placement of 

manufactured homes, on single family residential lots in subdivisions established solely 

for the purpose of home ownership. 

 
9.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Manufactured homes 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Support services necessary to service the needs of the residents of the manufactured 

home subdivision 

 
Recreational facilities, which are accessory to the manufactured home subdivision 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned 

permitted uses 

 
9.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping 

stations 

 
Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII 



 

47 

Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special 

exception uses 

 
9.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed 

as a permitted or special exception use. 

 
9.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
Dwellings and other structures shall be so located so as to comply with the following 

requirements: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

15,000 square feet 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

100 feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
From a permanent building 

 
 

45 feet 

40 feet 

12 feet, (20 feet from a public street right-of- 

way) 

25 feet 
 

Maximum Building Area 
 

45 percent 

 
9.7. Buffer Regulations. A buffer which is at least a twenty (20) feet wide shall be provided 

along all MHR boundaries which abut an FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, or R-2 district. 

 
9.8. Additional Requirements: 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X 

C. The wheels, towing tongue and hitch shall be removed from all 

manufactured homes located in the MHR district. 

D. No later than thirty (30) days after placement of a manufactured home 

dwelling on a site, the area between the bottom of the unit and the ground 

shall be enclosed by permanent masonry underpinned foundation which 

extends from the ground to the bottom of the exterior wall and surrounds 

 
the entire dwelling, the underpinned foundation being brick, or masonry 

painted materials painted the same color as the building. An inspection shall 

be conducted no later than thirty-two (32) days after the placement of the 



 

48 

dwelling on the site for compliance with these regulations. 

 
E.  Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the 

Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures 

Code. 

 
Section 10.0 MH Manufactured Home Park District 

 
10.1 Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the MH Manufactured 

Home Park District. 

 
10.2 Statement of Intent. It is the intent of this district to allow for manufactured home 

parks to be established where manufactured home spaces are rented, for compensation. 

The purpose of the district is to provide an extended choice of affordable housing 

opportunities. 

 
10.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Manufactured home park 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Support services necessary to service the needs of the residents of the manufactured 

home park 

 
Recreational facilities which are necessary to the manufactured home park 

 
10.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Utility uses such as: electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping 

stations 

 
Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special 

exception uses 

 
10.5. Prohibited Uses 

 
Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed 

as a permitted or special exception use 

 
10.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations 

 
Dwellings and other structures shall be so located so as to comply with the following 

requirements: 



 

49 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Space Area 
5,000 square feet 

 

Minimum Space Width 
 

50 feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
From a permanent building or 

manufactured home 

 
 

20 feet 

20 feet 

12 feet, (20 feet from a public street right-of- 

way) 

 
25 feet 

 

Maximum Building Area 
 

45 percent 

 
10.7. Development Requirements: 

 
The following minimum standards shall apply to all manufactured home parks: 

 
A. All internal park drives shall have a minimum twenty (20) foot wide all- 

weather surface. At least two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on 

each space. 

 
B. All sewage disposal facilities and water supply facilities must be approved 

by the State Health Department and provided to each space. Permanent 

facilities for clothes washing and laundering shall be provided for park 

residents. Said facilities shall meet the State Health Department 

requirements. 

 
C. Manufactured homes shall be installed as provided in the rules of the 

Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission Administrative Procedures 

Code. 

 
D. Each manufactured home park shall submit a fire protection plan which 

must comply with the minimum standards of the appropriate fire 

department. 

 
E. Each space in a manufactured home park shall be provided with two (2) thirty 

(30) gallon refuse cans having vermin-proof lids. Regular garbage and refuse 

pick-up service must be provided at each manufactured home park. 

 
F. Each manufactured home park providing ten (10) or more manufactured 



 

50 

home spaces must provide suitable playground area of not less than three 

hundred (300) square feet for each manufactured home space. 

 
G.     Electrical connections to each space shall conform to the specifications of 

the National Electrical Code, as amended. At least one street or night light 

shall be provided for each ten (10) spaces or a fraction thereof. 

 
H. No site shall be used for a manufactured home park which is subject to flood 

or undue pooling of water, or air pollution by smoke, dust, or fumes. 

 
I. Site development plans submitted for rezoning to the MH District shall 

include the requirements of Article III, Section 2.1 and the following 

information: street and space layout, location and designation of buildings 

and other facilities including detailed plans for water supply, sewerage and 

sewage disposal, garbage disposal and area drainage; and other information 

deemed by the City as necessary to determine compliance with the 

requirements of this Section. 

 
J. Each manufactured home park shall operate under supervision of a resident 

manager who shall be on duty on the premises at all times. 

 
K. The State Health Department shall issue permits to persons who operate 

Manufactured home parks which comply with the requirements of this 

Section. 

 
a. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the operation of a 

manufactured home park, without having applied for and obtained 

from the State Health Officer a permit based on satisfactory 

compliance with the foregoing specifications and regulations. 

 
b. The said permit shall be issued without charge to the permit tee; shall 

be non-transferable with respect to persons or establishments; shall 

be kept posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment; shall 

automatically expire on the date upon which state and county 

privilege licenses expire annually; and shall be renewable during the 

sixty (60) days prior to that date each year. 

 
c.    The issuance of a permit for the operation of a manufactured home 

park, for a year, for part of a year, or for operation at new location, 

shall be continued upon compliance with regulations as determined 

by one or more inspections. 

 
d. The said permit may be revoked because of the violation of any of 

the provisions of this Ordinance; provided that the holder of said 

permit shall have the legal right of appeal. 



 

50 

10.8 Buffer Regulations. A buffer which is at least a twenty (20) feet wide shall be 

provided along all MH boundaries which abut an FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 

or R-5 district. 

 
10.9 Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X 

 
Section 11.0 Institution District 

 
11.1 Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the Institution District. 

 
11.2 Statement of Intent. To establish areas for institution uses which are neither 

residential nor commercial in nature. 

 
11.3 Permitted Uses: 

 
Airport 

Business college or vocational school 

Cemetery 

Church or other place of worship 

College or University 

Hospital 

Lodges and fraternal orders wherein alcoholic beverages are not consumed nor sold 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

Post Office 

 
Public buildings and facilities, except those which are listed as a permitted use in the M-1 

or M-2 districts 

 
Public park and recreation facilities 

Public and private schools 

 
11.4 Special Exception Uses 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping 

stations 

 
Telecommunication facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Accessory structures or uses customarily incidental to any of the aforementioned special 

exception uses 

 
11.5 Prohibited Uses:



 

51 

 

Residential, institution, commercial and industrial uses which are not specifically listed a 

permitted or special exception use 

 
11.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

60 feet, (40 feet when any portion of the 

property adjoins an FAR, R-1, R-2 or R-4 

residential district) 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

35 feet 

 
25 feet 

 
15 feet, (25 feet abutting a public street right- 

of-way) 

 
11.7 Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet 

wide on all rear and side property lines, which abut an FAR or residential district. Where 

an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence 

may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. Uses, which feature outdoor 

activity, such as parks and playgrounds, shall provide a twenty (20) foot wide buffer 

along all side and rear property lines, which abut said districts. 

 
11.8 Additional Regulations: 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscaping Regulations, Article X. 

C. Because of the unique nature of institution uses, and their need to be located 

in proximity to residential areas, the use of each lot or parcel in the 

Institutional District shall be limited to those uses and configuration shown 

on the site development plan approved as part of the rezoning process. 

Amendments to the approved site development plan must be approved by the 

City according to the procedures set forth in Article III, Sub Section 2.1. 

 
Because of the unique nature of institution uses, rezoning applications for 

the Institution District shall submit a site development plan which includes 

all of the information required in Article III, Sub Section 2.1., plus the 

location and dimensions of the following: 



 

52 

1. Buildings and structures 

2. Exterior lighting and signs 

3. Buffers and fences 

4. Outside storage areas 

5. Parking and loading areas 

 
Section 12.0 (O) Office District 

 
12.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the Office District. 

 
12.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide areas for office uses, 

which are compatible with nearby residential areas. 

 
12.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Business offices, professional offices, government offices and offices of public or private 

non-profit organizations 

 
Medical clinic 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Office uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the intent of this 

district 

 
12.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Assisted living facilities 

Research and testing labs 

Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks and above ground pumping 

stations 

 
12.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is specified as 

a permitted use in the C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, unless said use is 

specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district. 



 

53 

12.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

60 feet, (40 feet when any portion of the 

property adjoins an FAR, R-1, R-2 or R-4 

residential district) 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

35 feet 

 
25 feet 

 
15 feet, (25 feet abutting a public street right- 

of-way) 

 
12.7. Buffer Regulations. 

 
All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side 

property lines, which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates 

properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted 

for the required buffer along said alley. 

 
12.8. Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffer and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Section 13.0 C-1 Neighborhood Business District 

 
13.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the C-1 Neighborhood 

Business District. 

 
13.2. Statement of Intent: It is the intent of this district to provide areas for limited retail 

and service businesses which serve and are appropriate near residential areas. 

 
13.3. Permitted Uses: 



 

54 

Retail and service businesses, which are limited in character and size to that which is 

appropriate near residential areas. Establishments may display merchandise outside, but 

shall not have any outside storage of materials, merchandise, equipment or supplies. 

Permitted uses shall include the following types of uses and businesses: 

Any use permitted in the Office District, plus: 

Bank or lending institution 

Barber shop, beauty shop and similar personal service shops 

 
Child or adult care center 

 
Convenience store, provided that gasoline pumps shall be located at least fifty (50) feet 

from a residential district boundary 

 
Drug store 

Dry cleaning and laundry outlets 

Hardware store 

Mail and packaging services 

Municipal police, fire and emergency medical stations 

 
Off-premise sale of alcoholic beverages, in establishments where the sale of alcoholic 

beverages is not the primarily use or business activity 

 
Shopping center 

Video tape rental 

 
Retail and service uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the 

intent of this district 

 
13.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Residential 

Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks and above ground pumping 

stations 

 
13.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is specified as 

a permitted use in the Institution, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, unless said use 

is specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district 



 

55 

13.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

30 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

35 feet 

 
25 feet 

 
15 feet, (25 feet abutting a public street right- 

of-way) 

 
13.7. Buffer Regulations: 

 
All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet wide along all rear and 

side property lines, which abut an FAR or residential district. Where an alley separates 

properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted 

for the required buffer along said alley. 
 
 
 
 
13.8. Additional Regulations: 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X 

 
Section 14.0 C-2 Local Business District 

 
14.1 Generally: The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the C-2 Local Business 

District. 

 
14.2. Statement of Intent: It is the intent of this district to provide areas for a variety of 

retail and service businesses which are appropriate near residential areas, but serve a 

larger area than the immediate neighborhood. 

 
14.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Retail and service businesses, which are limited in character and size to that which is 

appropriate near residential areas. Establishments may display merchandise outside, but 

all outside storage of materials, merchandise, equipment or supplies shall be screened 



 

56 

from view from the public rights-of-way and residential districts. Permitted uses shall 

include the following types of uses and businesses: 

 
Any use permitted in the C-1 District 

 
Automobile repair, provided that all service work is done within an enclosed building and 

all storage, including vehicles, is located behind the front building line of the main 

building and screened from view. No vehicle shall be stored on the premises for more 

than thirty (30) days nor shall any vehicle be stored on Public Right of Way. 

 
Business Services such as blueprinting, duplicating, computer and copier sales & service 

Car wash 

Catering shop 

Commercial music, dancing and martial arts schools 

Eyeglass and vision center 

Funeral home 

 
Gasoline service station, provided that gasoline pumps shall be located at least fifty (50) 

feet from a residential district boundary 

 
Grocery store 

Nursing home 

 
On-premise sale of alcoholic beverages, in establishments where the sale of alcoholic 

beverages is not the primary use or business activity 

Photograph developing and processing shops 

Plant nursery, greenhouse 

Post Office 

 
Photocopy center 

Repair service for such items as appliances, electronics, shoes, watches or jewelry 

Restaurant, except restaurant with drive-up window service 

 
Specialty shops including but not limited to: antiques, art and school supplies, art 

galleries and studios, books, cosmetics, stationary, camera, glassware, clothing, coins, 

stamps, florist, gifts, novelties, hobbies, arts and crafts, jewelry, leather, magazines, 

photography studios, picture framing, shoes, sporting goods, tailoring, toys, upholstery 

shops and variety stores 

 
Retail and service uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the 

intent of this district 

 
14.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Residential 

Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII 



 

57 

Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks and above ground pumping 

stations 

 
14.5.Prohibited Uses: 

 
All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is specified as 

a permitted use in the C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, unless said use is specifically 

listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district 

 
14.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

40 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

35 feet 

 
25 feet 

 
15 feet, (25 feet abutting a public street right- 

of-way) 

 
14.7. Buffer Regulations: 

 
All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet wide along all rear and 

side property lines which abut an FAR, residential district, POD, the Office District or the 

Institution District. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) 

foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 

 
14.8. Additional Regulations: 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffer and Landscaping Regulations, Article X. 
 

 
 

Section 15.0 C-3 Community Business D istrict 

 
15.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the C-3 Community 

Business District. 



 

58 

15.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide areas for retail and 

service uses, which are community-wide in scope. 

 
15.3. Permitted Uses: 

Any use permitted in the C-2 Local Business District 

Automobile dealership, used car lot 

Bakeries 

 
Business services such as blueprinting, duplication, and computer and copier sales and 

service 

 
Commercial recreation uses such as miniature golf, par 3 golf, golf driving range, batting 

cages, bowling alley, skating rink, video arcade and similar uses 

 
Discount and department stores 

 
Equipment and vehicle rental business, provided that all service work is done within an 

enclosed building and all storage is screened from view from all public rights-of-way and 

residential districts 

 
Home furnishing establishments including carpet, furniture and appliances 

Indoor flea market 

Off-premise sale of alcoholic beverages 

 
On-premise sale of alcoholic beverages 

Hotels and motels 

Mobile home sales and service 

Paint, wallpaper and home decoration stores 

 
Power equipment sales and service centers, provided that all service work is done within 

an enclosed building and all storage is screened from view from all public rights-of-way 

and residential districts 

 
Radio or television broadcasting studio 

Restaurants 

Self service storage facilities, subject to Article VII, Section 11.0 

Taxidermy 

Theater and drive-in theater 

Vehicle towing service, with no vehicle storage on premises 

Veterinarian, with no outdoor kennels 

 
Retail and service uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the 

intent of this district. 

 
15.4. Special Exception Uses: 



 

59 

Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
Light manufacturing, fabricating, processing or assembly under the following 

stipulations. All work to be performed in an enclosed building. The business must not 

create any danger to health or safety in surrounding areas and not create any 

objectionable noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare. A buffer will be required 

as specified in section 15.7 of the c-3 commercial district. If a six foot privacy fence is 

used as a buffer as allowed in section 15.7, the finished side of the fence must face away 

from the property requiring the buffer. (Adopted December 22
nd

. 2003. Ordinance No. 

2003-25) 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks, above ground pumping 

station 

 
15.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is specified as 

a permitted use in the Institution, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, unless said use is 

specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this district. 

 
15.6  Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

40 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

45 feet 

 
25 feet 

 
15 feet (25 feet abutting a public street right- 

of way) 
 

Maximum Building Area 
 

30 percent 

 
15.7  Buffer Regulations. 

 
All uses shall provide a buffer which is at least twenty (20) feet wide along all rear and 

side property lines which abut an FAR, RR, PRD-1, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 or R-5 residential 

district. All uses shall provide a buffer which is at least twelve (12) feet wide along all rear 

and side property lines which abut an R-6 district, PRD-2, POD, Office District or 



 

60 

the Institution district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six 

(6) foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 

 
15.8. Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 16.0 M-1 Light Industrial District 

 
16.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the M-1 Light 

Industrial District. 

 
16.2. Statement of Intent: It is the intent of this district to provide areas for manufacturing 

and storage which do not create any danger to health or safety in surrounding areas and 

which so not create any objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare. 

 
16.3 Permitted Uses: 

 
Above ground storage of liquid motor fuels, provided that loading platforms be set back at 

least 150 feet from any property line. All above ground storage tanks shall be provided 

with separate containment reservoirs, each reservoir being of sufficient capacity to insure 

containment of the storage tank contents when completely full in event of rupture or leak. 

Such reservoirs shall be set back at least 200 feet from any property line and 1,000 feet 

from any residential district boundary. 

 
Automobile and truck repair 

Contractor and construction company yards 

Governmental public works facility 

Heavy equipment sales and service 

Manufacturing, fabricating, processing or assembling uses 

Printing and publishing establishments 

Recycling collection point for household items 

Self service storage facilities, subject to Article VII, Section 11.0 

Textile mills and facilities 

Truck terminal 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations. Water storage tanks, above ground pumping 

stations and facilities for heavy vehicle and equipment storage 

 
Vehicle towing service 

Warehouse and office – warehouse 

Wholesale establishments 

Similar light industrial uses which comply with the intent of this district 



 

61 

16.4 Special Exception Uses: 

 
Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII 

 
16.5 Prohibited Uses: 

 
Residential, commercial, institution and industrial uses which are not specifically listed 

as a permitted or special exception use in this district. 

 
16.6  Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

60 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

 
Rear 

 
Side 

 
 

50 feet 

 
50 feet 

 
25 feet 

 
16.7. Buffer Regulations. 

 
All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twenty-five (25) feet wide along all rear 

and side property lines, except those property lines which abut property zoned M-1 or M- 

2. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot privacy 

fence may not be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 

 
16.8. Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 17.0 M-2 Heavy Industrial District 

 
17.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the M-2 Heavy 

Industrial District. 

 
17.2. Statement of Intent. It is the intent of this district to provide areas for heavy 

manufacturing and storage which have the potential to create objectionable noise, 

vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare. 



 

62 

 

17.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Any use permitted in the M-1 Light Industrial District. 

 
Above ground storage of flammable or combustible liquids provided that loading 

platforms shall be set back at least 150 feet from all property lines. All above ground 

storage tanks shall be provided with separate containment reservoirs, each reservoir being 

of sufficient capacity to ensure containment of the storage tank contents when completely 

full in event of rupture or leak. Such reservoirs shall be set back at least 200 feet from all 

property lines and 1,000 feet from any residential district boundary. 

 
Automobile salvage and dismantling 

Central mixing plant for cement, mortar, plaster or paving materials 

Fixed plants for processing stone, chert, gravel and clay 

Foundry 

Manufacture of brick, tile and concrete blocks 

Railroad yard 

Salvage yard and processing of recycled materials 

Sawmill 

Vehicle towing service with vehicle storage 

 
Similar heavy industrial manufacturing uses which comply with the intent of this district 

 
17.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Any use or process, which involves volatile materials 

Any use which emits obnoxious odors 

Sanitary landfill and solid waste transfer station 

Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII 

Wastewater treatment plant.   

 

17.5  Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

60 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

 
Rear 

 
Side 

 
 

100 feet 

 
100 feet 

 
100 feet 



 

63 

 

17.6. Buffer regulations: 

 
All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twenty-five (25) wide along all rear and 

side property lines, except those property lines which abut property zoned M-2. Where an 

alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may 

not be substitutes for the required buffer along said alley. 

 
17.7. Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 18.0 Planned Development District (PDD) 

 
18.1. Statement of Intent. Planned development is a method of development which 

permits more than one use to be developed on a tract of land according to an approved 

master development plan; the intent of which is to: 

 
A. Create a community which features a variety of residential densities and 

land uses in a manner which connects those neighborhoods and uses by a 

coordinated system of commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and 

public streets. 

 
B. Permit flexibility and consequently more creative and imaginative design to 

accommodate planned associations of uses developed as integral land use 

units. 

 
C. Promote the efficient use of land to facilitate a more economic arrangement 

of uses, buildings, pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems and utilities. 

 
D. Combine and coordinate uses, building forms, building relationships, 

architectural styles and circulations systems within the PDD. 

 
E. Preserve and enhance the significant natural features of the site. 

 
18.2.  PDD Standard: 

 
A. Except when an existing approved PDD is amended to include additional 

area, any tract of land to be zoned PDD shall have a minimum of one 

hundred (100) acres. 

 
B. Twenty (20) percent of the gross tract acreage of a PDD shall be devoted to 

commonly owned open space. At least one half of that amount shall be 

comprised of tree save and natural areas. All commonly owned open space 

shall be incorporated throughout the PDD to form a continuous network of 



 

64 

open space which enhances scenic quality and pedestrian circulation within 

the PDD. 

 
C. The PDD shall have an architecturally unified design theme which runs 

throughout the community. The design theme shall be accomplished by 

unified design of the following elements: entrance features, landscaping, 

lighting, color, architecture, right-of-way treatments, signs, and similar 

elements that are common throughout the community. 

 
D. The average maximum residential density of a PDD shall be three (3) 

dwelling units per gross tract acre of property zoned for residential use. 

although some areas may exceed this density, the average density of 

property zoned for residential use in the PDD shall be three (3) dwelling 

units per acre. 

 
E.  Each lot or parcel of land in the PDD, which is devoted to uses other than 

detached single family residential use, shall not exceed 80 percent 

impervious surfaces. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to: 

buildings, parking areas, paved drainage structures, walkways and other 

surfaces which are impervious to water. 

 
F. Every PDD shall feature a variety of land uses. If it is not appropriate to have 

commercial or industrial land uses in a PDD, land use variety shall be 

accomplished by providing a variety of residential densities. Every PDD 

shall feature a variety of residential densities. 

 
G. All of the property within the PDD shall be allocated to one or more of the 

following zoning districts: 

 
1. PRD-1 Planned Single Family residential District 

2. PRD-2 Planned Attached Residential District 

3. POD Planned Office and Institution District 

4. PCD-1 Planned Neighborhood Commercial District 

5. PCD-2 Planned Commercial District 

6. PID Planned Industrial District 

 
H. Each PDD shall establish an entity which owns and is responsible for the 

perpetual maintenance of all commonly owned property and improvements. 

 
I. Every lot or parcel in a PDD shall front a public street and all public 

improvements shall comply with the valley Subdivision Regulations. 

 
J. All structures shall be located so as to conform to the Standard Building 

Code and Standard Fire Prevention Code. 

 
K. The following standards shall apply to all property in the PDD, except 



 

65 

PRD-1 zoning districts: 

 
1. Service and loading areas, outdoor storage areas, trash receptacles, 

utility equipment, mechanical units and similar appurtenances shall 

be located so as to minimize visibility from public property and shall 

be visually screened from view from public property. Trash 

receptacles shall be located within a four sided structure which 

completely conceals the trash receptacle. The color and architecture 

of the structures shall be compatible with that of the building which it 

serves. 

 
2. The intensity, location and design of exterior lighting shall be such 

that light is not cast upon adjacent property or the public right-of- 

way. Light fixtures shall be designed to cast light downward. Where 

necessary, cut-off devices shall be used to minimize glare off 

premises. Exterior lights shall not exceed 24 feet in height and the 

fixtures and poles shall be compatible with the architecture of the 

buildings on the premises. 

 
3. The City’s Sign Regulations shall comply to all PDD’s, except that 

free standing signs shall not exceed 12 feet in height or the maximum 

height permitted in the Sign Regulations for the subject sign, 

whichever height is less. 

 
18.3.  PDD Zoning Application Requirements: 

 
PDD zoning applications shall be reviewed in compliance with the procedures set forth in 

Article III, Section 2.1. PDD zoning applications shall also include the following 

information: 

 
A. A development plan, drawn to a scale of not more than one inch equals one 

hundred (100) feet, which shows the following: 

 
1. Boundary of the PDD in relation to surrounding property, and public 

streets and highways. 

 
2. Boundary of each PDD zoning district. 

 
3. Conceptual public street plan and pedestrian circulation plan for the 

PDD and the manner in which the proposed streets will connect to the 

existing street system of the surrounding area. 

 
4. Proposed lot layout for the PDD 

 
5. The location of all existing and proposed: bodies of water, easements 

and rights-of-way, rivers, streams, railroads, tree save areas, commonly 



 

66 

owned open space, proposed public use sites, pedestrian ways, buffers 

intended to separate the PDD from surround land uses and similar 

features and improvements. 

 
B. A topography map of the PDD in not less than ten (10) foot contour 

intervals. 

 
C. Development Criteria: Each application for a PDD shall include a written 

text which addresses the following planning issues: 

 
1. A legal description of the total site proposed for the PDD and a legal 

description of each PDD zoning district. 

 
2. A general description of the surrounding area, including current zoning 

and/or land uses. 

 
3. A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the PDD, and a 

description of the character of the proposed development. 

 
4. A development schedule indicating the estimate date when construction 

of the PDD or stages of the PDD can be expected to begin. 

 
5. Provisions and/or plans providing necessary utilities to and within the 

PDD. 

 
6.  Protective and/or restrictive covenants which shall encumber the 

property and establish standards pursuant to Subsection 16.2© of this 

Section. 

 
7.   A comprehensive traffic study, prepared by a registered professional 

Engineer, which estimates the projected traffic to be generated by 

each component of the PDD, and the effect of the projected traffic 

attributed to the PDD upon the City of valley. 

 
8. Total acreage of the PDD and for each PDD zoning district. 

 
9. Average density of development expressed in units per acre for 

residential property and gross floor area per acre for other land uses. 

 
10. The amount of commonly owned open space and the percent 

distribution of open space within each PDD zoning district. 

 
18.4.  PRD-1 Planned Single Family Residential District: 

 
A. Statement of Intent: To provide areas for detached single family residential 

dwellings which are connected to all other parts of the planned community 



 

67 

by a network of commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and public 

streets. 

 
B. Permitted Uses: The same permitted uses as in the R-1 Low Density 

Residential District, subject to the same conditions. 

 
C. Special Exception uses: The same special exception uses as in the R-1 Low 

Density Residential District, subject to the same conditions. 

 
D. Prohibited Uses: The same prohibited uses as in the R-1 Low Density 

Residential District, subject to the same conditions. 

 
E. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 

 

Maximum Density 
 

The average density of all residential districts 

in the PDD shall not exceed 3 dwelling units 

per acre 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

25 feet 

25 feet 

8 feet 
 

 
 

F. Buffer Regulations. Same as the R-1 Low Density Residential District 

 
H. Additional regulations. Same as the R-1 Low Density Residential District 

 
18.5 PRD-2 Planned Attached Residential District: 

 
A.  Statement of Intent. To provide areas for attached dwellings, which are 

connected to all other parts of the planned community by a network of 

commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. 

 
B. Permitted Uses: The same permitted uses as in the R-6 High Density 

Residential District, subject to the same conditions 

 
C. Special Exception Uses. The same special exception uses as in the R-6 High 

Density Residential District, subject to the same conditions 



 

68 

D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the R-6 High Density 

Residential District, subject to the same conditions 

 
E. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Maximum Density 
 

A maximum of 80 percent impervious 

surfaces. The average density of all 

residential districts in the PDD shall not 

exceed 3 dwelling units per acre 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

30 feet 

30 feet 

30 feet 

 
F. Buffer Regulations: Same as the R-6 High Density Residential District 

 
G. Additional Regulations. Same as the R-6 High Density Residential District 

 
18.5.  POD Planned Office and Institution district: 

 
A. Statement of Intent. To provide areas for office and institution uses which are 

connected to all other parts of the planned community by a network of 

commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. 

 
B. Permitted Uses. The same permitted uses as in the Institution District and the 

Office District, subject to the same conditions 

 
C. Special Exception Uses. The same special exception uses as in the Institution 

District and the Office District, subject to the same conditions 

 
D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the Institution District and 

the Office District , subject to the same conditions 



 

69 

E. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Maximum Density 
 

A maximum of 80 percent impervious 

surfaces 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

Four stories 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 
 

All buildings shall be located at least 25 feet 

from a public street right-of-way and the 

POD boundary. 

 
F. Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer which is at least twelve 

(12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR or 

residential district. Uses which feature outdoor activity, such as parks and 

playgrounds, shall provide a twenty (20) foot wide buffer along all side and 

rear property lines which abut said districts. 

 
G. Additional Regulations. Same as the Office District 

 
18.7 PCD-1 Planned Neighborhood Commercial District: 

 
A. Statement of Intent. To establish and preserve areas for neighborhood 

commercial facilities which serve and are compatible with surrounding 

residential areas and are connected to all other parts of the planned 

community by a network of commonly owned open space, pedestrian 

ways and public streets. 

 
B. Permitted Uses. The same permitted uses as in the C-1 Neighborhood 

Business District, subject to the same conditions 

 
C. Special Exception Uses. The same special exception uses as in the C-1 

Neighborhood Business District, subject to the same conditions 

 
D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the C-1 Neighborhood 

Business District, subject to the same conditions 



 

70 

 

Area and dimensional regulations 
 

 
 

 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Maximum Density 
 

Maximum of 80 percent impervious surfaces 
 

Maximum Gross Floor Area of each 

establishment 

 
 

2,500 square feet 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 
 

All buildings shall be located at least 25 feet 

from the PCD-1 boundary which adjoins a 

residential district 

 
F. Buffer Regulations. Same as the C-1 Neighborhood Business District 

 
G. Additional Regulations. Same as the C-1 Neighborhood Business District 

 
18.8. Planned Commercial District (PCD-2) 

 
A. Statement of Intent. To provide areas for retail and service businesses which 

serve a community-wide market and are generally not compatible within 

residential neighborhoods but are connected to all other parts of the planned 

community by a network of commonly owned open space, pedestrian ways 

and public streets. 

 
B. Permitted Uses. The same permitted uses as in the C-3 Community Business 

District, subject to the same conditions 

 
C. Special Exception Uses. The same special exception uses as in the C-3 

Community Business District, subject to the same conditions 

 
D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the C-3 Community 

Business District, subject to the same conditions. 

 
 

Area and Dimensional Regulations 



 

71 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Maximum Density 
 

Maximum of 80 percent impervious surfaces 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 
 

All buildings shall be located at least 25 feet 

from a PCD-2 boundary which adjoins a 

residential district 

 
F. Buffer Regulations. Same as the C-3 Community Business District 

 
G. Additional Regulations. Same as the C-3 Community Business District 

 
18.9. Planned Industrial District (PID) 

 
A. Statement of Intent. To provide areas for manufacturing and storage which 

do not create any danger to health or safety in surrounding areas and which 

do not create any objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor heat or 

glare; and which may be connected to all other parts of the planned 

community owned open space, pedestrian ways and public streets. 

 
B. Permitted Uses. The same permitted uses as in the M-1 Light Industrial 

District, subject to the same conditions 

 
C. Special Exception Uses. The same uses as in the M-1 Light Industrial 

District, subject to the same conditions 

 
D. Prohibited Uses. The same prohibited uses as in the M-1 Light Industrial 

District, subject to the same conditions 



 

72 

E. Area and Dimensional regulations 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Maximum Density 
 

Maximum of 80 percent impervious surfaces 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

35 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 
 

All buildings shall be located at least 25 feet 

from a PID boundary. 

 
F. Buffer Regulations. All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twenty 

five (25) feet wide along all rear and side property lines, except those 

property lines which abut property zoned M-1 or M-2. 

 
G. Additional Regulations. Same as the M-1 Light Industrial District 

 
18.10. Mixed Uses. In the PCD-1 and PCD-2 districts, residential uses may be located on 

building floors above commercial uses. Such mixed uses shall be designated on the 

approved PDD Development Plan and described in Planning Criteria. All such dwellings 

shall count toward the maximum permitted residential density of three (3) dwelling units 

per acre. 

 
18.11. PDD Amendments. The following changes to the development Criteria or 

approved Development Plan, shall require approval by the Planning Commission and 

City Council pursuant the procedures set forth in Article III, Subsection 2.1: 

 
A. Any change in PDD zoning district boundaries 

B. Any change to the conceptual street plan which would: 

1. Change a cul-de-sac street to a through street 

2. Change a through street to a cul-de-sac or dead end street 

3. Change the intent or function of the pedestrian circulation system or 

commonly owned open space network 

C. Any change in the Development Criteria approved as part of the PDD. 

 
D. Any variances to zoning ordinance provisions, which apply to a PDD 

and are not part of this Section, must be approved by the Board of Zoning 

adjustment. 



 

73 

Section 19.0. RD Redevelopment District 

 
19.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in 

this Ordinance when referred to in this section, are the regulations in the RD, 

Redevelopment District. 

 
19.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of the Redevelopment District is to provide for the 

establishment of areas for the development of former industrial or commercial 

properties into multi use sites. 

 
19.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Farmers Market 

Retail Businesses approved by the Planning Commission 

Hotel 

Light Manufacturing 

Professional Offices 

Museums 

School Classrooms 

Warehousing 

Theaters 

Restaurants 

Loft Apartments 

Accessory Structures or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned 

permitted uses. 

 
Note: Signage will conform to the City Sign Ordinance. 

 
19.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Any Professional, Commercial or Light Industrial Use that would be compatible with 

the listed permitted uses. 

 
Accessory Structures or uses customarily incidental in any of the aforementioned 

special exception uses. 

 
19.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
Residential, commercial, institutional and industrial uses which are not specifically 

listed as a permitted or special exception use. 



 

74 

19.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

60 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

 
Rear 

 
Side 

 
 

10 feet 

 
10 feet 

 
10 feet 

 
 
 
 

Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 20.0. PK Park District 

 
20.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance when referred to in this section, are the regulations in the PK, Park 

District 

 
20.2.  Statement of Intent: The intent of the Park District is to provide for the 

establishment of parks to preserve Green Space and provide for the natural habitat 

of wildlife. 

 
20.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Pedestrian Trails 

Picnic Tables and Shelters 

Grills 

     Observation Decks 

     Natural Habitat Viewing Blinds 

     Elevated Walkways 

     Restrooms 

 
20.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Events that are sponsored or co-sponsored by the City of Valley. 



 

75 

Camping with approval of City Council. 

 
20.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
Any use that is not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use. 

 
20.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

30 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

 
Rear 

 
Side 

 
 

10 feet 

 
10 feet 

 
10 feet 

 
20.7. Buffer Regulations. All special exception uses, shall provide a buffer which is at 

least twelve (12) feet wide on all rear and side property lines which abut an FAR or 

residential district. Where an alley separates properties where a buffer is required, a six 

foot high privacy fence may be substituted for the required buffer along said alley. 

 
1.10.   Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 21.0. RP River Park District 

 
21.1. Generally: The regulations set forth in this section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance when referred to in this section, are the regulations in the RP, River 

Park District. 

 
21.2.  Statement of Intent: The intent of the River Park District is to provide for the 

establishment of areas along the Chattahoochee River to provide for the 

preservation of natural and scenic areas for outdoor Recreation and to provide 

protection of such lands from premature or incompatible development. 



 

76 

21.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Pedestrian Trails 

Picnic Tables and Shelters 

Grills 

Observation Decks 

Natural Habitat Viewing Blinds 

Elevated Walkways 

Camping with approval of City Council. 

Fishing 

Boat Launches 

Model Airplane Flying 

Fishing 

Rest Rooms 

 
21.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
• Events coordinated with Valley Parks and Recreation. 

• Small Scale Model Air shows. 

• Commercial   Businesses   that   promote   outdoor   recreation   along   the 

Chattahoochee River that would not endanger natural and scenic areas and 

will be compatible with the intent of the River Park District. 
 
 
 
 
21.5. Prohibited Uses: 

 
Any use that is not specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use. 

 
21.6. Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 

 
 

 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

None 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

30 feet 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

 
Rear 

 
Side 

 
 

10 feet 

 
10 feet 

 
10 feet 



 

77 

Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, Article IX. 

B. Buffers and Landscape Regulations, Article X. 

 
Section 22.0 MP Medical Park District 

 
22.1. Generally. The regulations set forth in this Section or set forth elsewhere in this 

Ordinance, when referred to in this Section, are the regulations in the Medical Park 

District. 

 
22.2. Statement of Intent: The intent of this district is to provide areas for uses, which are 

associated with Medical Health Care of Individuals, “Research, Rehabilitation and/or 

Training”. 

 
22.3. Permitted Uses: 

 
Assisted Living Facilities 

Extended Care Facilities 

Eye Clinics 

Hospitals for Humans 

Medical and Dental Clinics 

Medical Research and Testing Labs 

Medical Training Facilities 

Nursing Homes 

Park and Recreational Facilities 

Pharmacies 

Rehabilitation Facilities 

Retail Medical Supply 

State and County Health Departments 

 
Municipal Police, Fire and Emergency Medical Stations 

 
Uses which are similar to the above stated uses and comply with the intent of this district, 

with prior approval of the Planning Commission. 

 
22.4. Special Exception Uses: 

 
Telecommunications facilities, subject to Article VIII, 

 
Utility uses such as: Electric sub-stations, water storage tanks and below ground pumping 

stations 

 
22.5. Prohibited Uses: 



 

78 

All residential uses, and any use or any use which is similar to a use which is 

specified as a permitted use in the C-1, C-2, C-3, I, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, 

unless said use is specifically listed as a permitted or special exception use in this 

district. 

 
22.6 Area and Dimensional Regulations: 

 
 

AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS 
 

Minimum Lot Area 
 

None 
 

Minimum Lot Width 
 

60 Feet 
 

Maximum Building Height 
 

60 feet, (40 feet when any portion of the 

property adjoins a residential district) 
 

Minimum Building Setbacks 

Front 

Rear 

Side 

 
 

35 feet 

 
25 feet 

 
15 Feet (25 feet abutting a public street right 

of way) 

 
 
 
 

 
22.7. Buffer Regulations. 

 
All uses shall provide a buffer, which is at least twelve (12) feet wide on all rear 

and side property lines, which abut a residential district. Where an alley separates 

properties where a buffer is required, a six (6) foot high privacy fence may be 

substituted for the required buffer along said alley. If a privacy fence is used, the 

finished side must face the residential district. 

 
22.8.Additional Regulations. 

 
A.  Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations, 

Article IX. B. Buffer and Landscape Regulations, 

Article X. 

 
22.9 Reserved for Design Standards 

 
 

 

 



 

79 

 

ARTICLE VII SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS          

Section 1.0. Fences and Walls. 

 

      A.    Height on residential properties. Fences or walls that divide the front yard 

of a house from the adjoining street shall not exceed a height of four (4) feet. In 

the case of a corner lot, fences or walls that divide the front and adjoining side 

yard of the house from the adjoining streets shall not exceed a height of four (4) 

feet. Within any residential district no wall or fence located within the rear or 

side yards, shall exceed a height of six and one half (6 ½) feet, except as 

required for a retaining wall or tennis court. 
 

    B.  Appropriate materials. Fences and walls shall be constructed of a durable 

material such as treated lumber, brick, chain link or equal materials and be 

attractive in appearance. Barbed wire fencing shall be allowed in FAR – Forestry, 

Agriculture and Recreational District and only in the rear and side yards of RR 

– Rural Residential Districts. Razor wire shall not be permitted as part of any 

wall or fence, except by special exception of the Board of Adjustments within a 

M1 or M2 Industrial District, where special measures are clearly required to 

secure the property from public intrusion. 
 

 C.  Fences near roadways. No fence or wall may be erected in the public right-

of-way or within twelve (12) feet of the edge of a street or curb except by special 

exception where special measures are clearly required. No fence, structure or 

planting shall obstruct visibility of persons operating vehicles in the public right-

of-way. 

 

 

 
 

 
 

Section 2.0 Temporary structures and building material storage. 

 
Building materials or temporary structures for construction purposes shall not be placed 

or stored on any lot or parcel of land before appropriate building permits have been 

issued by the Zoning Administrator. Such building materials and temporary structures 

shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. 

 
Section 3.0. Outdoor storage of recreation and other vehicles. 

 
The outdoor storage or parking of any vehicle, boat, trailer, buses, motorized home and 

similar large vehicles shall be prohibited for a period greater than forty-eight (48) hours in 

all residential districts, except where expressly permitted by other provisions of this 

Ordinance unless the following minimum conditions are met: 

 



 

80 

A. All such vehicles or equipment shall be placed within a completely enclosed 

building or located behind the front building line or lines in the case of a 

corner lot or through lot, but no closer than ten (10) feet to any property 

line. 

 
B.    Storage or parking shall be limited to a lot or parcel of land, which is 

improved with an inhabited dwelling and the vehicle or equipment is 

owned by the occupant. 

 
C. In the case of multifamily structures, all such vehicles shall be stored at one 

location designated for such use and shall be screened from view by a fence 

or vegetation adequate to conceal the vehicles from view from off the 

premises. 

 
D. Trailer coaches and other vehicles or equipment intended or adaptable for 

sleeping purposes shall remain unoccupied and shall not be connected to 

sanitary sewer facilities, or other public utilities. 

 

Section 4.0. Storage of inoperable motor vehicles. 

 
It shall be unlawful for any person to park, leave or store upon any lot, place or premises 

within the City of Valley any inoperable motor vehicle for a period greater than forty- 

eight (48) hours, unless such vehicle is in an enclosed building or screened from view by 

a visually impervious barrier such as a privacy fence or landscaping. Such privacy 

fencing shall comply with the provisions of Section 4.0 of this Article. For the purpose of 

this Ordinance, a vehicle shall be deemed inoperable if it cannot be started or driven 

under its own power. Provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to a properly 

zoned and licensed business if such parking, leaving or storing of such motor vehicles is a 

necessary incident in the operation of said business. 

 
Section 5.0. Swimming pools.   

 

All pools capable of holding 24 inches of water shall be enclosed by a fence with a 

childproof gate. The fence and gate shall be at least four (4) feet in height and constructed 

in compliance with the requirements of Section 1.0 of this Article. 

 
 

A. Permanent swimming pools, which are wholly or partially above grade level 

shall only be permitted in the rear yard when located in a single family or 

two family residential district and shall be located at lease twenty-five (25) 

feet from any property line. No mechanical appurtenance shall be located 

within ten (10) feet of any property line. 

 
B. Swimming pools constructed below grade level shall comply with the 

following: 

 
1. A pool shall only be permitted in the rear when located in a single 



 

81 

family or two family residential district. 

 
2. The pool and mechanical appurtenances, shall be setback at least ten 

(10) feet from any property line. 

 
 3. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be constructed to direct the beam 

below the horizontal plane of the fixture and shall reflect away from any 

adjacent property. Maximum height of the fixture shall be ten (10) feet. 

 
Section 6.0. Private tennis courts. 

 
A. Tennis courts for single family and two family dwellings shall be located in 

the rear yard. 

 
B. Tennis courts shall be located at least twenty-five (25) feet from any 

property line and residential structure. 
 

 

 

Section 7.0. Storage and dispensing of combustible and flammable liquids, 

other than for sale. 

 
7.1. Above ground storage. The above ground storage of gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene 

and other hazardous liquids is prohibited within the City, except that protected above 

ground storage tanks at commercial, industrial, governmental or manufacturing facilities, 

intended for fueling vehicles used in connection with those facilities, may be allowed 

when approved by the appropriate fire chief. 

 
Temporary use of movable tanks in conjunction with the dispensing of such liquids into 

the fuel tanks or motorized equipment on premises not normally accessible to the public 

is permitted only after written approval for such use has been obtained from the fire chief. 

 
7.2. Below ground storage. The below ground storage and/or dispensing of gasoline, 

diesel fuel, kerosene and other hazardous liquids is prohibited in residential districts, 

except at governmental facilities when approved by the appropriate fire chief. Such 

storage of hazardous liquids, other than for sale, is permitted in non-residential districts, 

upon written approval of the fire chief. 
 
The main building of a permanent or temporary business shall be a permanent building 

which has a roof supported by columns or walls, with walls constructed of wood, metal, 

glass, brick or masonry materials, which completely enclose the main building area. The 

permanent building and premises shall conform in all respects to the applicable land and 

building development codes and ordinances of the City. The main building of any 

permanent or temporary business shall not be a tent, shelter, mobile building or other 

structure which does not comply with the intent of this Section. 

 
  Section 8.0 (DELETED) 



 

82 

 
Section 9.0. Exterior Lighting 

 
All exterior light fixtures shall be designed and located so as to shine down on the 

premises and to minimize the amount of light which spills off the premises. Except for 

municipal athletic facilities, the maximum height of exterior light fixtures located on 

property, any portion of which adjoins a single family residential district, shall be 30 feet. 

 
Section 10.0. Garbage and Trash Containers. 

 
Except for single family residential dwellings, all garbage and trash containers shall be 

located within a four sided enclosure, which completely conceals the containers. 

 
Section 11.0. Self-Service Storage Facilities 

 
11.1. Requirements for Self-Service Storage Facilities 

 

A. Submission of a site development plan 

 
B.  Self-service storage facilities shall be limited to the rental of storage units 

and the pick-up and deposit of goods or property in dead storage. 

 
C. Vehicle and trailer rental may be permitted on the premises as an accessory 

use, subject to review and approval as a Special Exception Use. Rental 

vehicles shall not be parked in required parking spaces, drives or parking 

lanes. 

 
D. Storage units shall not be used to manufacture, fabricate or process goods; 

conduct servicing or repair; conduct garage sales or retail sales of any kind; 

or conduct any other commercial or industrial activity. 

 
E.  Individual storage units shall not have electrical outlets except ceiling light 

ceiling light fixtures and necessary switches. 

F. The maximum gross floor area of an individual storage unit shall be 340 

square feet. 

 
G.     Individual storage units or private postal boxes within a self-service storage 

facility shall not be considered premises for the purpose of assigning a legal 

address in order to obtain a business license or other governmental permit 

or license to do business, nor as a legal address for residential purposes. 

 
H. The following materials shall not be stored in any self-service storage unit. 

Each lessee shall be required to sign a written statement certifying that none 

of the following will be stored in the unit leased by that individual or 

corporation: 

1. Hazardous materials 

2. Flammable and combustible liquids 

3. Explosives 



 

83 

4. Black powder and smokeless powder 

 
I. Except as provided herein, all property stored on the premises shall be entirely 

within an enclosed building. Open storage of recreation vehicles and boats is 

permitted, subject to the following: 

1. Storage shall occur only in a designated area which is clearly delineated 

for open storage. 

2. Such areas shall not exceed 10 percent of the lot or parcel area. 

3. Such areas shall be screened from view from property zoned for 

detached single family residential use and public property, including 

the public right-of-way. 

4. Storage shall not occur in required parking spaces, drives, parking lanes 

nor within required building setback areas. 

5. No vehicle maintenance, washing or repairs shall be permitted. 
 

J. Exterior light fixtures shall be designed and installed so that the light is 

focused down upon the premises and so that a minimum amount of light 

shines on adjacent property or the right-of-way. If a facility abuts a 

residential district, exterior light fixtures shall not exceed 16 feet in height. 

 
K. A caretaker or security guard dwelling is permitted on the premises. 

 
L.  Required parking spaces shall be located adjacent to the building or use 

which they serve. Floor area within the rental or leasing office, which is 

devoted to uses other than the rental of storage units, shall be provided with 

additional parking spaces, at a ratio of one space per 200 square feet of gross 

floor area. 

 
L. Self-service storage facilities which feature both multi-access and 

limited access storage facilities shall comply with all of the requirements 

pertaining to both types of storage units. 

 
11.2. Supplemental Regulations Pertaining Only to Multi-Access Facilities 

 
A. Minimum lot area shall be three acres. 

 
B. All drives which provide direct access to storage units shall have an adjacent 

parking lane which extends the full length of the access drive, and 

is located between the access drive and the storage units. Access drives with 

direct access to storage units on only one side of the drive shall be at least 

20 feet wide, plus one parking lane at least 10 feet wide, for a total width of 

30 feet. Access drives with direct access to storage units on both sides of the 

of the drive shall be at least 20 feet wide, plus one parking lane at least 8 

feet wide on each side of the drive, for a total width of 36 feet. 

 
C. Storage unit doors shall be screened from view from property zoned for 

detached single family residential use. The building, including storage unit 

doors, shall be a color which blends with the surrounding built and natural 



 

84 

environment and shall not be a color which attracts attention to the 

premises. 

 
D. The facility shall feature appropriate access and circulation by vehicles and 

emergency equipment. 

 
11.3. Supplemental Regulations Pertaining Only to Limited Access Facilities 

 
A. Multi-story facilities located in the C-3 District shall feature building 

materials and architectural design which reduces the scale and mass of the 

structure, so that the building appears to be an office building, not a storage 

facility. 

B. Each entry point to the building used to access hallways leading to the 

storage units shall accommodate a minimum of two loading berths and 

related maneuvering areas. The loading and maneuvering areas shall not 

interfere with the traffic circulation system of the premises. 

 
Section 12.0 Accessory Antennas 

 
This section governs antennas which are accessory to the principal use of a premises. 

Commercial radio and television transmission antennas, and receiving antennas for cable 

television systems, telecommunications antennas, and other antennas which are the 

principal use of the premises or constitute a separate business from the principal use of the 

premises, are not accessory antennas, and are governed by Article VIII. 

 
12.1. Regulations pertaining to all zoned districts. 

 
A. All antennas shall be located behind the front building setback lines, or 

lines, in the case of a corner or through lot. 

 
B. Antennas shall be located and designed to minimize negative impact on 

surrounding property. Materials used in constructing the antenna shall not 

be unnecessarily bright, shiny or reflective. 

 
C. A parabolic antenna subject to the regulations of this Section is any antenna 

which has a parabolic, dish or circular shape, is more than two (2) feet in 

diameter, and is an accessory use to the principal use of the lot or parcel on 

which it is located. Parabolic antennas, two (2) feet or less in diameter, are 

exempt from the provisions of this Section. 

 
12.2. Regulations pertaining to accessory antennas in the FAR, RR, R-1, R-2, R-4, R-5, 

MHR, MH and PRD-1 districts. Each lot or parcel which is improved with a 

dwelling may have the following accessory antennas: 

 
A. One parabolic antenna which is permanently attached to the ground, located 

in the rear yard at least twelve (12) feet from a property line, and does not 

exceed sixteen (16) feet in height; and 

 



 

85 

B. One radio or television receiving antenna, other than a parabolic antenna, 

which does not exceed fifty (50) feet in height; and 

 
C. One federally licensed amateur radio station antenna which does not exceed 

seventy (70) feet in height. 

 
12.3. Regulations pertaining to accessory antennas in the R-3 and PRD-2 districts. 

Each lot or parcel which is improved with a dwelling(s) may have the following 

accessory antennas: 

 

A. One radio or television receiving antenna, other than a parabolic antenna, 

which does not exceed fifty (50) feet in height; and 

 
B. One federally licensed amateur radio station antenna which does not exceed 

seventy (70) feet in height; and 

 
C. One ground-mounted parabolic antenna which is permanently attached to 

the ground, located in the rear yard at least twenty-five (25) feet from a 

public street right-of-way, ten (10) feet from a property line, and does not 

exceed sixteen (16) feet in height; or one roof-mounted parabolic antenna 

which is located at least fifty (50) feet from a single family residential 

district boundary and does not extend more than ten (10) feet above the 

roof line. 

 
12.4. Regulations pertaining to accessory antennas in the Institution, Office, Business 

and Industrial Districts. Each lot or parcel which is improved with a building 

which is the principal use of the lot or parcel, may have the following accessory 

antennas: 

 
A. One accessory antenna, other than a parabolic antenna, that does not exceed 

seventy (70) feet in height, nor fifty (50) feet in height when located within 

two hundred (200) feet of an FAR, RR, R-1, R-2, R-4, R-5 or PRD-1 district 

boundary; and 

 
B. One ground-mounted parabolic antenna which is permanently attached to the 

ground, located in the ear yard at least twenty-five (25) feet from a public 

street right-of-way, ten (10) feet from a property line, and does not exceed 

sixteen (16) feet in height; or one roof-mounted parabolic antenna which does 

not extend more than ten (10) feet above the roof line, and is located at least 

fifty (50) feet from a single family residential district boundary, if said 

antenna is more than sic (6) feet in diameter. 

 
 

 

 

 

 



 

86 

Section 13.0 Home Occupations, specific requirements 

 
A Home Occupation is intended to be a use conducted in a residential property, with 

operations occurring entirely within a dwelling and carried out solely by the inhabitant 

thereof and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the building and/or 

structure for dwelling purposes. Because the City recognizes that certain home 

occupations have greater land use impacts than others, this section is designed to 

establish two (2) types of home occupations. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to 

clearly explain the scope of the business to ensure the proper regulations are 

administered. 

 
 
 

 

A) Qualifying home occupations are home based businesses that have no outward 

appearance of business activity, including business identification signage. 

Examples of qualifying home occupations include (but are not limited to) the 

following: business office for an otherwise licensed business activity, internet based 

business, consulting service, etc. No public hearing is required for qualifying home 

occupation applications, and the administrative official has authority to approve 

qualifying home occupation applications. Applicants for qualifying home 

occupations must sign an “Affidavit of Compliance.” The affidavit outlines the 

minimum requirements listed below. These minimum requirements 

shall be conditions of approval and must be observed by the applicant. The affidavit 

shall be signed in the presence of the administrative official (or appointee). Any 

applicant who refuses to sign the affidavit or is unable to comply with the minimum 

requirements will be required to apply for a non-qualifying home application. The 

applicant will not become eligible for the issuance of a business license until the 

affidavit has been approved by the administrative official.  

 

(1) The Business License is valid only for this home occupation, this operator 

at this location; 

(2) This home occupation approval is void if the Business License is not 

obtained within ninety (90) days of approval or if the license is allowed to 

lapse; 

(3) Any work conducted in the home (e.g. bookkeeping, etc.) is confined to the 

principal building and/or structure; 

(4) No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the home is used for the 

business; 

(5) The business shall not involve wholesale or retail sales wherein merchandise is 

delivered or distributed from the premises; except for crafts and art work created on 

the premises; 

(6) Only residents of the home will engage in business activity at the home; 

(7) The business shall not involve a high volume of traffic which is disruptive to the 

neighborhood; 

(8) Accessory buildings and/or structures may not be used for home 

occupations; 



 

87 

(9) Any business-related equipment or materials are kept inside the home;  

(10) No employees or employee vehicles are allowed at the home; 

(11) No business-related vehicles are parked at the home; 

(12) If business-related materials or equipment are delivered to the home, there 

will be no more than two (2) deliveries per week and the delivery vehicle 

shall have no more than a single axle with six (6) wheels; 

(13) The business operator is responsible for observing any private covenants 

which may impact the home occupation; 

(14) Any other restriction as may be considered appropriate by the 

administrative official or the board of zoning adjustment; and 

(15) Violation of any of the aforementioned conditions could result in revocation 

of the approval. 

 

B) Non-qualifying home occupations are home based businesses that exhibit any 

outward (visible) signs of business activity, including (but not limited to) the 

following: lawn care business, contractor, home maintenance business, etc. Nonqualifying 

home occupations shall be considered special exceptions and shall be 

subject to board of zoning adjustment approval as outlined in this article. Unless 

expressly omitted by the board of zoning adjustment, the restrictions listed below 

shall be considered conditions of approval. However, the board of zoning 

adjustment may add additional conditions of approval should conditions warrant. It 

shall be the applicant’s responsibility to clearly explain the scope of the business 

to ensure the proper restrictions are approved and/or omitted by the board of 

zoning adjustment.  

 

(1) The special exception is valid only for the applicant, this home occupation 

and this location; 

(2) The special exception is void if a Business License, issued by the City of 

Valley, is not obtained within ninety (90) days of approval and subsequently 

if the license is allowed to lapse; 

(3) No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the home shall be used for the 

business; 

(4) The business shall not involve wholesale or retail sales wherein merchandise is 

delivered or distributed from the premises; except for crafts and art work created on 

the premises. 

(5) There shall be no noise, odors or vibrations associated with the business; 

(6) No employees or employee vehicles are allowed at the home; 

(7) Only residents of the home are authorized to engage in business activity at 

the home; 

(8) The business shall not involve a high volume of traffic which is disruptive to the 

neighborhood; 

(9) All work-related activities must be conducted inside the home or at a job site;                             

(10) No accessory building shall be used in conjunction with the business;                                              

(11) The applicant is allowed to have one (1) business-related vehicle parked on the 

property, said vehicle shall meet all city ordinances pertaining to vehicles;                                                                    

(12) No business-related vehicle may be parked in the street;        

(13) Lawn care equipment and/or any trailer used to transport the equipment are 

shielded from the view of the street and adjacent properties;                                                                         



 

88 

(14) No business-related equipment or materials shall be visible from the road or 

from adjoining properties and shall be stored inside either the single vehicle or 

inside the home;  

(15) A day care home (not allowed in apartment or duplex) shall confine all play 

equipment to the rear yard of the dwelling;                                                                                                                                        

(16) Used and/or left over materials shall not be taken to the property;                                       

(17) If business-related materials or equipment are delivered to the home, there shall 

be no more than two (2) deliveries per week, and the delivery vehicle shall have no 

more than a single axle with six (6) wheels;                                                                                                                           

(18) Applicant is responsible for observing any private covenants which may impact 

the proposed home occupation;                                                                                                                             

(19) Any other restriction as may be considered appropriate by the administrative 

official or the board of zoning adjustment; and                                                                                                                    

(20) Violation of any of the aforementioned conditions could result in revocation of 

the approval. 

                                                             

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE VIII 

TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES 

 
Section 1.0. Purpose. 

 
In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and businesses while 

protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the community, these 

regulations are necessary in order to (1) facilitate the provision of wireless 

telecommunications services to the residents and businesses of the City; (2) minimize 

adverse visual effects of towers through careful design and citing standards; (3) avoid 

potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure through structural standards and 

setback requirements; and (4) encourage and maximize the use of existing and approved 

towers, buildings and other structures to accommodate new wireless telecommunications 

antennas in order to reduce the number of towers needed to serve the community. 

 
Section 2.0. Applicability. 

 
This Article shall apply to antennas, towers and other supporting structures which are 

integral to the principal use of the premises or which are a separate business from the 

principal use of the property, including, but not limited to: commercial radio and 

television transmission antennas, television receiving antennas for cable television 

systems, telecommunications antennas, and other antennas which are not an accessory 



 

89 

use of the premises. All such uses shall be a special exception use, except the following 

uses which shall be a permitted use in all zoning districts. 

 
A. Installation of antennas on existing towers where the tower height is not 

increased and all accessory structures and uses are located within the 

existing tower compound. 

 
B. Installation of antennas on power poles where the height of the pole is not 

increased, and accessory cabinets and boxes have a volume of less than two 

cubic feet. 

 
C. Installation of antennas owned by public utilities which are accessory to: 

remote terminal units serving pad mounted switch gear, remote switch 

controllers and similar telemetry antennas; provided the antenna is attached 

to a power transmission or distribution pole and does not exceed the height 

of the pole, or the antenna is attached to a building and does not extend more 

than ten (10) feet above the roof line of the building or the antenna is ground 

mounted and does not exceed twenty (20) feet in height. Said 

antennas shall also be exempt from the permitting requirements of Section 

10 of this Article. 

 
D. Installation of antennas which are accessory to Supervisory Control and 

Data Acquisition facilities located within a electric power sub-station, 

provided the antenna does not exceed the height of the poles or sub-station 

structure. Said antennas shall also be exempt from the permitting        

requirements of Section 10 of this Article. 

 
E.  Installation of antennas on concealment structures, except concealment 

towers, where the antenna is not visible from off the premises and the 

accessory cabinet has a volume of less than 40 cubic feet or is not visible 

from off the premises. 

 
F. Installation of antennas on buildings which comply with all of the following 

conditions: 

 
1. The building is not located in a single family residential district. 

 
2. The property is not subject to a special exception use, variance or other 

zoning restriction which exceeds the requirements of the Zoning 

Ordinance. 

 
3. The antenna does not exceed the maximum building height in the zoning 

district nor extend more than twelve (12) feet above the roof line of the 

building. 

 
4.  The accessory cabinet does not exceed forty (40) cubic feet in volume or 

is located where it is not visible from off the premises. 

 



 

90 

Section 3.0. Availability of Suitable Existing Towers or Other Structures. 
 
No new towers, which are a special exception under the terms of this Article, shall be 

permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the City that 

no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant’s needs. 

 
Section 4.0. Principal Uses to be on Lots. 

 
All telecommunication towers and other supporting structures which are not an integral 

part of the principal use of the premises shall be the principal use of the premises on 

which they are located and shall be located on a separate lot. Because of the unique 

nature of these structures, said lots shall be exempt from the requirement to have 

principal frontage upon a public street, any minimum lot area or width requirements and 

any setback requirements of the zoning district where they are located. However, the lot 

for any telecommunications tower shall be large enough to accommodate the tower and 

  accessory structures of the applicant, as well as the accessory structures of at least one  

  additional co-locating service provider. 
 

 

Section 5.0. Setbacks. 

 
Towers shall be placed no closer than a distance equal to the height of the tower from any 

dwelling located in the FAR, RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5 or PDD zoning districts. 

However, because of the unique nature of telecommunications facilities, other required 

setbacks from property lines shall be determined on an individual basis by the Board of 

Adjustment as part of the special exception process. The Board shall consider the 

following factors when establishing minimum setbacks. 

 
A. The type of telecommunications facility 

 
B. Relationship to other properties and buildings 

 
C. Relationship to the public right-of-way 

 
D. Size of the subject lot or parcel 

 
E. Accessibility from public safety and other purposes 

 
F. Other factors which effect the telecommunications facility, surrounding 

property and community at large. 

 
Section 6.0. Aesthetics and Lighting. 

 
A. Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish, or subject to any 

applicable FAA standards, be painted a neutral color so as to reduce visual 

obtrusiveness 

. 

B. The design of the buildings and accessory structures and uses shall, to the 



 

91 

extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping 

that will blend the telecommunication facilities to the natural setting and 

built environment. 

 
C. If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and 

accessory uses and structures must be of a color that is identical to, or 

closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure so as to make 

the antenna and related facilities as visually unobtrusive as possible. 

 
D. Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by the FAA or other 

applicable authority. If lighting is required, the City may review the 

the available lighting alternatives and approve the design that would cause 

the least disturbance to the surrounding views. Lighting must be shielded or 

directed to the greatest extent possible so as to minimize the amount 

of light that falls onto nearby properties, particularly residences. 

 
E. No portion of any antenna array may extend beyond the property line. 

 
F. Accessory buildings, cabinets and structures shall not exceed sixteen (16) 

feet in height and shall be compatible with the surrounding area. 

 
G. The City may require a special design of any telecommunications facility 

where findings of particular sensitivity are made. 

 
 

 

 

Section 7.0. Federal Requirements. 
 
All towers and antennas must meet or exceed the current standards and regulations of the 

FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the federal government with the authority to 

regulate towers and antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the 

owners of the towers and antennas governed by this Article shall bring such towers and 

antennas into compliance with such standards and regulations within six (6) months of 

the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a more stringent compliance 

schedule is mandated by the controlling federal agency. Failure to bring towers and 

antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations shall constitute 

grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner’s expense. 

 
Section 8.0. Building Codes and Safety Standards 

 
The owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards 

contained in applicable local building codes, the applicable standards for towers that are 

published by the Electronic Industries Association, as amended, and all applicable codes 

adopted by the City. 

 
A. In addition to any other applicable standards and requirements, the 

following shall apply to all towers and telecommunications facilities: 



 

92 

 
1. Sufficient anti-climbing measures must be incorporated into each 

facility to reduce potential for trespass and injury. 

 
2.    Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not less than six (6) 

feet in height and shall also be equipped with an appropriate anti- 

climbing device. 

 
3. At least ten (10) feet of horizontal clearance must exist between any 

antennas and any power lines, unless more clearance is required to 

meet Alabama Public Service Commission standards. 
 

4. All towers and telecommunications facilities must be designed and/or 

sited so that they do not pose a potential hazard to nearby residences or 

surrounding properties or improvements. Any tower shall be designed 

and maintained to withstand without failure, the maximum forces 

expected from wind, hurricanes, and other natural occurrences, when 

the tower is fully loaded with antennas, transmitters, and other 

telecommunications facilities, and camouflaging. Initial demonstration 

of compliance with this requirement shall be provided via submission of 

a report to the Zoning Administrator prepared by a structural engineer 

licensed in the State of Alabama describing the tower structure, 

specifying the number and type of antennas it is designed to 

accommodate, providing the basis for the calculations done, and 

documenting the actual calculations performed. Proof of ongoing 

compliance shall be provided via submission to the Zoning 

Administrator at least every five years of an inspection report prepared 

by an Alabama registered structural engineer indicating the number 

and types of antennas and related telecommunications equipment 

actually present and indicating the structural integrity of the tower. 

Based on this report, the Zoning Administrator may require repair of, 

or if a serious problem exists, removal of the tower or any 

telecommunications facilities. 

B.  If, upon inspection, the City concludes that a tower fails to comply with such 

codes and standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon 

notice being provided to the owner of a tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) 

days to bring such tower into compliance with such standards. If the owner 

fails to bring such tower into compliance within said thirty (30) days, the 

governing authority may remove such tower at the owner’s expenses. 

 
Section 9.0. Radio Frequency Standards. 

 
All applicants shall comply with federal standards for a radio frequency emission. Within 

six (6) months after the commencement of any operations utilizing a tower, antenna or 

related telecommunications facilities, the applicant shall submit a project implementation 

report which provides cumulative field measurements of radio frequency emissions of all 

antennas installed at the subject site, and which compares the results with established 

federal standards. If, upon review, the City finds that the facility does not meet federal 



 

93 

standards, the City may require corrective action within a reasonable period of time, and 

if not corrected, may require removal of the telecommunications facilities. Any 

reasonable costs incurred by the City, including reasonable consulting costs to verify 

compliance with these requirements, shall be paid by the applicant. 

 
Section 10.0 Permits. 

 
Except as specifically exempted in section 2.0 of this Article, towers, antennas and 

telecommunications facilities are considered structures, requiring issuance of a building 

permit. In addition to any information required pursuant to Article III, Section 1.0 in  

connection with the issuance of a permit for a tower, antenna or telecommunications 

facility, the applicant shall, prior to a permit being issued, submit the following to the 

Zoning Administrator: 

 
A. A maintenance/facility removal agreement, binding the applicant, the 

property owner (if other than the applicant) and the applicant’s and/or 

owner’s successors in interest, to properly maintain the exterior appearance of 

and ultimately the removal of the tower and telecommunications facilities in 

compliance with the provisions of this Article and any conditions of approval. 

 
B.  An agreement to pay to the City all costs of monitoring compliance with, and 

enforcement of, the maintenance, removal, and/or disposal of any tower and 

telecommunications facilities, and to reimburse the City for all costs incurred 

to perform the work required of the applicant by this agreement 

that the applicant may fail to perform. Such agreement for reimbursement 

shall include all costs of collection and reasonable attorney’s fees. 

 
C. An agreement to allow the City to enter onto the property and undertake 

any maintenance or removal activities so long as: 
 

 
 

1. The Zoning Administrator has provided the applicant written notice 

requesting the work needed to comply with this Article and providing 

the applicant at least forty-five (45) days to complete it; and a follow 

up notice of default specifying failure to comply within the time period 

permitted, and indicating the City’s intent to commence the required 

work within ten (10) days of the notice; and 

 
2. The applicant has not filed an appeal pursuant to Article III, Section 

1.32 within ten (10) working days of the notice of the City’s intent to 

commence the required work. If an appeal is filed, the City shall be 

authorized to enter the property and perform the necessary work if the 

appeal is dismissed or final action on it is taken in favor of the City. 

 
3.    Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section to the contrary, the 

city shall not be required to provide the notice described herein if there 

is a significant risk to the public health and safety requiring immediate 

remedial measures. 



 

94 

 
D. In addition to any building permit fees and special exception application 

fees, the applicant shall pay a telecommunications facility permit fee in an 

amount that shall be set from time to time by City Council resolution. The 

fees for towers may be set at different levels than the fees set for antennas. 

The City Council resolution may further provide for a waiver of fees in the 

case of: 
 

1. Construction of new towers with excess capacity, where the applicant 

commits in advance to allow co-location; 

 
2. Co-location of antennas on existing towers and/or alternative tower 

structures; 

 
3. Location of antennas on existing alternative tower structures; 

 
4. Other conditions which the City believes will minimize the need for 

construction of new towers. 

 
E.  A statement that the applicant agrees to allow for the potential co-location of 

additional telecommunications equipment by other providers on the 

applicant’s tower or within the same site location, subject to reasonable 

conditions. 

 
F. If the applicant seeks a permit for a tower or telecommunications facility on 

leased property, a copy of the lease agreement, memorandum of lease, or a 

verified written statement of the landlord indicating that the landlord is 

permitted to enter into leases with other telecommunications providers. 

 
Section 11.0 Application Requirements. 

 
A. Each applicant requesting a special exception under this article shall, in 

addition to submitting all information required in Article III, Section 2.2, 

submit the following information: 

 
1. Scaled elevation view and other supporting drawings, calculations, 

and documentation, signed and sealed by appropriate registered 

professionals 

 
2. Radio frequency coverage and tower height requirements 

 
3. Other information deemed by the board as necessary to determine 

compliance with this Article. Each applicant for an antenna or tower 

shall submit an inventory of its existing towers that are either within 

the City or within one-quarter mile of the City’s boundaries, including 

specific information about the location, height, and design of each 

tower. The City may share such information with other organizations 

seeking to locate antennas within the City, provided however that the 



 

95 

City is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing or 

warranting that such sites are available or suitable. 

 
If the applicant owns the electric power or telephone poles in the 

area, it is not the intent of this Article to require a map showing all 

such poles, however, it is the intent of this Article for the applicant to 

submit a map showing the location and height of all such poles in the 

vicinity of the property which is the subject of the special exception 

use. 

 
B.    Each applicant for an antenna or tower shall submit a copy of it’s one and 

five year plans for development of its telecommunications facilities in the 

city. 

 
Section 12.0. Factors Considered in Granting Special Exception Permits for 

Towers and Antennas. 

 
The City shall consider the following factors in determining whether to issue a special 

exception for a telecommunications facility: 

 
A. Height of the proposed tower; 

 
B. Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential district 

boundaries; 

 
C.  Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties; 

D. Surrounding topography; 

E. Surrounding tree coverage and foliage; 

 
F. Design of the tower, with particular reference to design characteristics that 

have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual obtrusiveness; 

 
G. Proposed ingress and egress; 

 
H. An evaluation of the applicant’s one and five year plans for development 

of its telecommunications facilities within the City, as well as those plans on 

file from other telecommunications providers; 

 
I. Availability of suitable existing towers and other structures; 

 
I. Any other information that the City deems reasonably necessary in 

connection with the review of the application. 

 
 

 

 



 

96 

 

 

 

Section 13.0. Removal of Abandoned Antennas and Towers 

 
Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months 

shall be considered abandoned. The City, in its sole discretion, may require an abandoned 

tower or antenna to be removed. The owner of such antenna or tower shall remove the 

same within ninety (90) days of receipt of notice from the City notifying the owner of 

such abandonment. If such antenna or tower is not removed within said ninety (90) days, 

the City may remove and dispose of such antenna or tower at the owner’s expense. If there 

are two or more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until 

all users cease using the tower. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

97 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IX. OFF-STREET 

PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS 

 
Section 1.0. Parking requirements for specific uses. 

 
1.1. Residential and Accessory Uses: 

 

1. Single-family Dwelling 2 spaces 

 

2. 
 

Manufactured Home 
 

2 spaces 

 

3. 
 

Two-family Dwelling 
 

2 spaces per dwelling unit 

 

4. 
 

Multifamily and Townhouse 

Dwelling 

 
 

1.5 spaces per dwelling unit 

 

5. 
 

Tourist Home, Bed & 

Breakfast 

 
 

5 spaces plus one space per bedroom 

 

6. 
 

Independent Living Facility 
 

1 space per dwelling unit 

 

7. 
 

Inn 
 

5 spaces plus one space per bedroom 

 

8. 
 

Group Home 
 

2 spaces 

 

9. 
 

Assisted Living Facility 
 

0.65 spaces per dwelling unit 

 

10. 
 

Private Swim & Tennis Clubs 
 

1 space per 75 square feet of swimming pool 

water surface area and 2 spaces per tennis court 

 

 

1.2. Public and Institutional Uses: 

 
1. Auditorium, arena, stadium, 

theater, church, concert hall and  

other spectator facilities 0.25 spaces multiplied by the maximum 

seating capacity 

2. College, university, 

vocational school 1 space per 50 square feet of classroom 

floor space 
 

3. Hospital 1 space per 3 beds plus 1 space per 2 



 

98 

employees 

 
4. Library 1 space per 800 square feet of floor area 

 

 
 

5. 

 

 
 

Post Office 

plus one space per 2 employees 

 
1 space per 300 square feet of floor area 

 

6. 
 

Public and private schools: 

 
Elementary & junior high schools 

 
 

 
1 space per 8 auditorium seats or 2 spaces per 

classroom, whichever is greater 
 

High schools 1 space per 6 students and one space per 3 

employees 

 
 

 

1.3. Commercial and Industrial Facilities. 
 

1. Auto dealership 1 space per 1,000 square feet of floor area 

 

2. 
 

Auto repair and service 
 

2 spaces per repair bay 

 

3. 
 

Auto parts sales 
 

1 space per 150 square feet of retail 

sales floor area 

 

4. 
 

Bank 
 

1 space per 150 square feet of floor area 

 

5. 
 

Barber and beauty shops 
 

2.5 spaces per chair 

 

6. 
 

Bowling alley 
 

4 spaces per alley 

 

7. 
 

Manual car wash 
 

1 space per 200 square feet of floor area 

 

8. 
 

Convenience store 
 

1 space per 155 square feet of floor area 

 

9. 
 

Dance or music studio 
 

1 space per 100 square feet of floor area 

 

10. 
 

Day care or nursery     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

One space designed for the safe and 

convenient loading and unloading of children 

per 10 children enrolled, based upon the 

maximum licensed capacity of the center, 

with a minimum of four spaces, plus one 

space for each employee on the maximum 

working shift.  

 



 

99 

11. Doctor-dentist office 1 space per 250 square feet of floor area 

 

12. 
 

Funeral home 
 

1 space per 50 square feet of floor area 

 

13. 
 

Gasoline service station 
 

1 space per pump and 2 spaces per repair bay 

 

14. 
 

Golf course 
 

7 spaces per golf hole 

 

15. 
 

Golf, carpet 
 

1 space per golf hole 

 

16. 
 

Laundromat 
 

0.5 spaces per machine 

 

17. 
 

Industry 
 

1 space per 3 employees on the maximum 

working shift 

 

18. 
 

Lumber yard and 

home improvement center 

 
 

1 space per 200 square feet of floor area and 

  1 space per 1,000 square feet of outdoor 

storage area 

 

19. 
 

Motel or hotel 
 

1 space per unit plus 1 space per 200 square 

feet of office floor area 

 

20. 
 

Nursing home 
 

1 space per 4 beds 

 

21. 
 

Office building 
 

1 space per 250 square feet of floor area 

 

22. 
 

Restaurant, lounge 

bar, night club 

 
 

1 space per 100 square feet of floor area 

 

23. 
 

Restaurant, drive-up 
 

1 space per 100 square feet of floor space 

 

24. 
 

Retail establishments which 

require an unusually large 

showroom such as furniture, 

carpet, and large appliances 

 

 
 
 
 

1 space per 800 square feet of floor area 

 

25. 
 

Self-storage facility, 

limited-access 

 
 

1 space per 30 storage units plus five 

spaces for the storage unit rental office, plus 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor 

area devoted to sales or rental of other 

services or materials. 
 

 

 

 

 



 

100 

26. Self-storage facility 

multi-access Parking lanes as required in Article VII, 

Section 11.2 (N) (2), plus five spaces for the 

storage unit rental office, plus one space per 

200 square feet of gross floor area devoted 

to sales or rental of other services or materials 

 
27. Wholesale establishments 1.5 spaces per 2 employees 

 
28. Veterinarian 1 space per 1,000 square feet of floor and 

kennel area 

 
29. All other retail and 

service establishments 1 space per 200 square feet of floor area 

and 1 space per 500 square feet of 

permanent outdoor sales 

 
Section 2.0. Rules in applying off-street parking standards. 

In applying the standards of Section 1.0 of this Article the following rules shall apply: 

A. A parking space shall be at least nine (9) feet wide and twenty (20) feet 

long except for the following situations: 
1. A parking space in a parking structure, which does not serve a retail or 

service use, may be a minimum of eight and one-half (8 ½) feet wide 

and eighteen (18) feet long. 

 
2.    A maximum of ten (10) percent of all parking spaces in a parking 

structure which serve a retail or service use may be a minimum of 

eight and one-half (8 ½) feet wide and eighteen (18) feet long. 

 
B. The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned herein 

shall be the same as required for a use of a similar nature. 

 
C. In the case of mixed or joint uses, the parking spaces required shall equal the 

sum of the requirements of the various uses computed separately. 

 
D. These standards shall apply fully to all uses and buildings established after 

the effective date of this Ordinance. 

 
E. These standards shall apply to all additions, expansions, enlargements or 

reconstruction on the basis of the addition, expansion, enlargement or 

reconstruction only. 

 
F. Off-street parking areas and spaces servicing publicly owned recreation 

facilities, may have a surface other than bituminous pavement or concrete, 

subject to the approval of the City Engineer. 



 

101 

 

G. Parallel parking spaces shall contain a minimum rectangular area of nine (9) 

feet wide by twenty-two (22) feet long. 

 
2.1. Location and design of off-street parking areas. 

 
A. In the FAR, RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, R-6, PRD-1 and PRD-2 districts, 

required off-street parking shall be provided on the same lot as the use to 

which the parking pertains. In other districts such parking may be provided 

either on the same lot or an adjacent lot, not in one of the above districts, 

when an increase in the number of spaces is required by a change of use or 

enlargement of the building served, or where such spaces are provided 

collectively or used jointly by two (2) or more buildings or establishments. 

 
B. In any case where the required parking spaces are not located on the same 

lot with the building or use served, or where such spaces are collectively 

or jointly provided and uses, a written agreement thereby assuring their 

retention for such purposes shall be properly drawn and executed by the 

parties concerned, approved as to form by the City Attorney and shall be 

filed with the application for a building permit, and shall be in full force 

and effect until released by a resolution of the city council. 

 
C. All parking areas shall be provided with safe entrance to and exit from the 

public thoroughfare. 

 
D. No off-street parking spaces, except for detached single family residential 

uses shall be entered or exited directly from a public street or alley. 

 
E. The use of any required parking space for the storage of any motor vehicle 

for sale, rent or repair or any other purpose other than the temporary 

parking of motor vehicles by patrons, is prohibited. 

 
Section 3.0. Loading area requirements. 

 
3.1. Required loading space. On the same premises with every building or structure 

involving the receipt or dispatch of vehicles as a necessity for, or incidental to, the 

operation, or use of the building, there shall be provided and maintained adequate space 

for standing, loading and unloading services, in order to avoid interference with public 

use of streets or alleys, maintain necessary fire access lanes and to maintain vehicular 

circulation through the parking lot and ensure access to all required off-street parking 

spaces. 

 
3.2. Loading area site arrangement. All loading areas shall be provided with safe 

entrance to and exit from the public thoroughfare. The entire loading area shall be paved 

and graded to properly drain. 



 

102 

 

3.3. Applicability. 

 
A.    These requirements shall apply fully to all buildings erected after the 

effective date of this Ordinance and all enlargements, expansions, or 

reconstruction thereof. 

 
B. No building or part thereof in the B District, heretofore erected, shall 

hereafter be enlarged or expanded to the extent of fifty percent or more 

in floor area or ground area used unless off-street loading space is 

provided in accordance with the requirements of this Section. 

 
C. No building or part thereof in the M Districts heretofore erected shall 

hereafter be enlarged or expanded to provide an additional floor area of 

twenty-five (25) thousand square feet or more, or to provide a total gross 

floor area of forty (40) thousand square feet or more, unless off-street 

loading space is provided in accordance with the requirements of this 

Section. 

 
 

ARTICLE X. BUFFER AND LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS     

  Section 1.0. Purposes and Objectives. 

The purposes of this Article are to promote the quality of life in the City of Valley by 

promoting health and general welfare, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the 

overcrowding of land, and to avoid undue concentration of population. This Article has 

been made with reasonable consideration, among other things, to the character of the 

zoning districts and their peculiar suitability for particular uses and with a view to 

conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land 

throughout the City. 

 
The objectives are achieved by requiring measures to make incompatible land uses more 

compatible by requiring a buffer between the uses and to provide shade within and 

enhance the appearance of parking and other vehicle maneuvering areas. 

 
Section 2.0. Landscaping Plan 

 
A Landscaping Plan shall be required as part of every building permit application, re- 

zoning application, special exception application and variance application for new 

construction which must provide a buffer or which contains a parking or vehicle 

maneuvering area as defined in the Article, and shall contain the following information: 

 
A. The boundaries of all tree areas and a description of the plant material 

therein. 

 



 

103 

B. The location and dimension of all areas proposed for buffers, landscaping 

and planting, including a description of the proposed plant materials. 
 

C. All dimensions and distances, property lines, easements, right-of-way and 

buffers. 

 
D. Existing and proposed buildings and structures, including signs, garbage and 

trash containers, utility and drainage structures. 

 
E. Existing and proposed buildings and structures on adjacent property affected 

by a required buffer. 

 
F. Bodies of water including water detention and retention areas. 

 
G. Driveways parking areas, existing and proposed parking spaces, access 

aisles and other vehicle maneuvering areas. 

 
H. Sufficient information and detail to clearly demonstrate that all applicable 

requirements and standards of this Article are fully satisfied. 

 
Section 3.0. Buffers. 

 
3.1. Applicability. Buffer Regulations are set forth in each of the zoning district sections 

of Article VI. If proposed development activity requires a buffer, a Landscaping Plan, 

shall be submitted pursuant to the requirements of this Article. 

 
3.2. Standards. In order to decrease incompatibility between neighboring land uses, the 

following standards shall apply to all buffers required by the Zoning Ordinance. 

 
A. The buffer shall provide a visually impervious barrier, uniformly dense at all 

heights from the ground, and a minimum of five (5) feet above grade 

throughout the entire length of the planting strip. The entire surface area of 

the buffer shall be planted as prescribed in this Section. Within one year after 

installation the buffer shall be at least six (6) feet above grade through- out 

the entire length of the planting. 

 
B. Privacy walls or fences, if incorporated in the buffer, shall be visually 

impervious, at least six (6) feet high, and shall be used in conjunction with 

landscaping materials which complement the purpose of the required buffer. 

Chain link fences or similar fencing shall not be used as a privacy fence. 

The location of the fence or wall within the buffer shall be approved by the 

City. 

 
C. All walls and fences located within buffer areas shall be finished on the 

exterior viewed from adjacent properties in the same type finish as the 

interior portion. All walls and fences shall be maintained in perpetuity by 

the owner. 



 

104 

D. Public utilities and storm drainage facilities may be constructed in a required 

buffer, provided the buffer is installed in compliance with the approved 

Landscape Plan. The City may require supplemental plant material in order to 

mitigate the effect of land disturbance in the buffer. 

 
E. The owner shall be responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement 

of all landscaping materials required by this Section. All plant material shall 

be tended and maintained in a healthy growing condition, replaced when 

dead and kept free of weeds, refuse and debris. 

 
Section 4.0. Landscaping for Parking and Vehicle Areas 

 
4.1. Applicability. These regulations apply to all areas, (hereinafter referred to as parking 

areas), which are open to the general public or visible from the public right-of-way, and 

used for off-street parking or loading, vehicular storage, display, maneuvering, vehicle 

washing, and the dispensing of motor fuels. All such areas with less than five (5) vehicle 

spaces are exempt from the provisions of this Section. 

This Section shall apply to new parking areas or enlargement of existing parking areas by 

ten (10) percent or more, for all special exception uses, except home occupations, and for 

permitted uses in the R-6, Institution, Office, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 Districts. If 

proposed development activity requires the installation of landscaping in parking areas, a 

Landscaping Plan shall be submitted pursuant to the requirements of this Article. 

 
4.2. Design Standards. 

 
A. Interior Parking Areas 

1. Each parking area shall have interior landscaping covering not less than 

five (5) percent of the total parking area. Such landscaping shall be in 

addition to all planting within six (6) feet of a building. 

2. The primary landscaping materials used in parking areas shall be shade 

trees. Shrubs and other planting materials may be used to compliment 

the shade tree planting but shall not be the sole component of the 

landscaping. 

3. The interior dimensions of any planting area shall be sufficient to 

protect all landscaping materials planted therein. 

 
B. Peripheral Parking Area Landscaping Adjacent to Right-of-Way 

1.  A landscaped strip at least ten (10) feet wide, which shall not include a 

sidewalk or trail, shall be located between the parking area and the 

public right-of-way, except where driveways are located. Required 

landscaping and trees may be planted within the adjacent public street 

right-of-way, if shown on the approved Landscaping Plan and 

approved by all applicable governments and utilities. 

2. Shrubs shall be evergreen and a minimum of thirty (30) inches high at 

installation, with a minimum height of three (3) feet within one growing 

season. Required shrubbery shall be planted in double staggered rows 



 

105 

within the landscaped strip. 

3.    At least one tree for every thirty (30) linear feet or portion thereof shall 

be planted in the landscaped strip, however, this shall not be construed 

as requiring the planting of trees on thirty (30) foot centers. 

4. Landscaping near parking areas shall not obstruct the driver’s view of the 

right-of-way at driveways and intersections, where plant height shall be 

limited to thirty (30) inches to provide vision clearance triangles. 

5. Vision clearance triangle setbacks shall be ten (10) feet in parking areas, 

thirty (30) feet at intersections and as required by the Alabama 

Department of transportation. Trees are permitted but branches shall be 

trimmed and maintained to a minimum height of eight (8) feet above 

finished grade. 

 
           C.    Peripheral Parking Area Landscaping Adjacent to Private Property. 

1. A landscaped strip at least five (5) feet wide shall be located the entire 

length between the parking area and abutting property lines, except 

where driveways are located. 

2. At least one tree for every thirty (30) feet or portion thereof shall be 

planted in the landscaped strip, however, this shall not be constructed as 

requiring the planting of trees on thirty (30) foot centers. 

 
D. Maintenance 

The owner shall be responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement 

of all landscaping materials, and barriers required by this Section. All plant 

material shall be tended and maintained in a healthy growing condition, 

replaced when dead and kept free of weeds, refuse and debris. 

 
4.3. Plant Material Standards. All plant materials shall be sufficient size to accomplish 

the intent of this article. Shade trees shall be at least two and one-half inch caliper in size 

at the time of planting. 

 
Section 5.0. Enforcement. 

 
A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued until the premises complies with the 

Landscaping Plan approved for the premises. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

106 

ARTICLE XI. LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS             

Section 1.0. Interpretation and purpose. 

In their interpretation and application, the provisions of the Ordinance shall be considered 

minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, 

convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the community. Where other 

ordinances or regulations heretofore adopted, or which may be adopted hereafter impose 

greater restrictions than those specified herein, compliance with such other ordinances or 

regulations is mandatory. 

 
Section 2.0. Severability clause. 

 
If any section, subsection, clause, provision, or portion of this Ordinance shall be held to 

be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall 

not affect any other section, subsection, clause, provision, or portion of this Ordinance 

which is not in and of itself invalid or unconstitutional. 

 
Section 3.0. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its adoption, 

and publication according to law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Adopted this the 28
th

. Day of June, 1999. 
 
 
 
 



 

107 

  AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE 2005-12 
 
 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Valley, Alabama: 

 
ORDINANCE 99-07, Valley Zoning Ordinance, as may have been previously 
amended, is hereby further amended to add, revise or delete the following: 

 
Temporary Emergency Relief 

 
The Zoning Administrator is hereby granted authority to provide immediate and temporary relief 

to applicants requesting such relief, by issuing permits authorizing installation of temporary 

manufactured homes on applicant’s property under the following conditions: 

 
• Such permit shall be temporary and not exceed six (6) months from date of issuance, or 

until a replacement home has been issued a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs 

first. 

 
• Such permit shall not be transferable. 

 
• Prior to issuance of such permit, the Zoning Administrator shall, in his discretion, be 

reasonably satisfied that the applicant’s requested relief is necessary, and the need 

therefore was proximately caused by damage resulting from fire or natural disasters. 

 
• Said temporary   manufactured  home  shall  be  used  exclusively  as  the  

temporary domicile of the household affected by the fire or natural disasters only during 

the time required to reconstruct or replace the original dwelling. 
 

 
 

• Once the   replacement  home  has  been  constructed  and  occupied,  the  temporary 

manufactured home shall be permanently removed from the property not more than 

thirty (30) days from the date that the Certificate of Occupancy  was issued for the 

replacement home. 

 
• The t e m p o r a r y   manufactured  home  shall  comply  with  all  applicable  

minimum standards for dwellings that may be prescribed by the subject zoning district. 

 
 

Speculative Rezoning 
 

The City of Valley discourages the use of rezoning as a strategy to increase speculative land 

value, where the applicant has no actual or immediate intent to develop in accordance with the 



 

108 

rezoning. Rezoning is intended to grant the applicant an opportunity to exercise appropriate 

alternative development options in situations where development in compliance with existing 

zoning is not possible or practicable, as long as the proposed uses are consistent with the 

Comprehensive Plan and the character of the surrounding area. The granting of this privilege by 

the City carries with it a good faith expectation that the proposed development will occur in a 

 
timely and deliberate manner. Therefore, when the City Council grants approval of a rezoning, 

the applicant should acquire a zoning permit or final plat approval (whichever is applicable) and 

commence construction activities in compliance with that permit or approval within one (1) year 

of the date upon which the rezoning is approved. If such actions have not been taken within the 

specified time frame, the Planning Commission may initiate actions to further rezone the subject 

property and/or reinstate the original zoning classification. 

 
Temporary Land Uses  

 
Temporary uses, as set forth below, are declared to possess characteristics which require 

certain controls in order to ensure compatibility with other uses in the districts within which 

they are proposed for location. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue a Temporary 

Certificate of Zoning Compliance for any of the following temporary uses. 

 
• Carnival, circus or fair in any commercial district, for a period not to exceed 

twenty-one (21) days, subject to the approval of the City Council. 

 
• Religious meetings in a tent or other temporary structure in any district, for a period 

not to exceed twenty-one (21) days. 

 
• Open lot sale of Christmas Trees in any district for a period not to exceed Forty-five 

(45) days. 

 
• Real estate sales office in any district, for a period not to exceed one (1) year, 

provided that such office is placed on the property to which it is appurtenant. 

 
• Carnivals, fairs or special events sponsored or cosponsored by the City of Valley or 

Chambers County Board of Education. 

 
• Other temporary uses are subject to the approval of the City Council. 

 
• All Temporary Certificates of Zoning Compliance may be renewed, provided that it 

is determined that said use is clearly of a temporary nature, will cause no traffic 

congestion, and would not create a nuisance to surrounding uses. 

 
  
 

Adopted and Approved September of 

2005. 



 

109 

 AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE 2006-13 
 

 
 

BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Valley, Alabama as follows: 

 
ORDINANCE 99-07, as may have been previously amended, is hereby further amended 

to allow Manufactured Homes to be placed in the rear yards of single family lots within 

the city limits on a temporary basis for the purpose of taking care of a family member 

who needs special supervision and attention. An application form with a strict set of rules 

will be required of all applicants. The applicants must apply to the Board of Adjustments 

for approval as a special exception in residential and FAR (Forestry, Agricultural & 

Recreation) districts. 

 
Rules and Regulations to Be Eligible For A Temporary Hardship Housing Permit 

to Place 

A Manufactured Home On An Existing Occupied Lot Within The City Limits of 

Valley, Alabama 
 

1.  Applicant must attach a letter to the application from a Medical Doctor 

stating the reasons why the person or persons who will be living in the 

Temporary Emergency Manufactured Home needs special attention. 

2.  Applicant shall attach a site layout of the property showing the location of 

the Temporary Home in relation to property lines and other buildings or 

structures as follows: 
A.   The length in feet of all property lines. 

B.   The outline o f  a l l   existing  buildings  or  structures  and  any  proposed 

buildings, structures or building additions on the property in their proper 

locations. 

C.   The shortest distance in feet from all property lines to the closest point on 

any ex i s t in g  building, accessory   structure  or  new  construction  on  the 

property. 

D.   The maximum height in feet of any proposed new structure or addition. 

E.   The location of any existing or proposed street access or curb cut. 

F.   The location of  any known easements on the property  other  than  utility 

blanket easements. 
 

 
 

3.  The permit is only good for six months and must be renewed on or before 

it expires. 

4.  Temporary home must have a separate telephone number from the main 

residence. This is for emergency 911 purposes. 

5.  The 911 address of the temporary home shall be the same as the main 



 

110 

residence address but with a letter added (A, B, C). 

6.  Temporary Manufactured Home must be used exclusively for the person 

or persons listed on the application. An overnight caregiver is permissible, 

but not on a continuous basis. 

7.  The property owner shall be the permanent caregiver (Such as a family 

member or a close companion). 

8.  The permit is non-transferable and cannot be used for adding or changing 

occupants of the Temporary Home. 

9.  The Manufactured Home must be removed from the premises within sixty 

days (60 days) after the discontinued use for which the permit was issued. 

10. Manufactured Home cannot exceed one thousand Square Feet (1000 Sq. 

Ft.). 

11. All utilities will be provided by the applicant and must meet the 

requirements and approval of the utility companies (Water, Sanitary 

Sewer, Electricity and Gas) and in cases where septic tanks are required it 

must be approved by the Chambers County Health Department. 

12. Placement of the Temporary Manufactured Home will comply with the 

setback requirements of an accessory structure or building. 

 
In all other respects, Ordinance 99-07 as may have been previously amended shall remain 

the same. 
 

 
 

ADOPTED AND APPROVED THIS THE 22
ND

. OF MAY, 2006. 
 
 
 
 


